An Act to regulate Banking, to make provision for
the Protection of the Currency and of the Public
Credit of the Commonwealth, and for other
purposes
This Act may be cited as the Banking Act 1959.
Except as otherwise provided by this Act, this Act shall come into
operation on the day on which the Reserve Bank Act 1959 comes
into operation.
2A Main objects of this Act
The main objects of this Act are:
to protect the interests of depositors in ADIs in ways that are
consistent with the continued development of a viable,
competitive and innovative banking industry; and
to promote financial system stability in Australia.
This Act, and the prudential standards and non-ADI lender rules
determined by APRA under this Act, achieve this mainly by:
restricting who can carry on banking business in Australia;
and
providing for the prudential supervision of ADIs by APRA,
by APRA determining prudential standards or taking other
action to ensure prudent management of ADIs; and
providing for APRA to manage or respond to circumstances
in which the ability of an ADI to meet its obligations may be
threatened; and
providing for certain account-holders to be paid amounts
where the financial claims scheme has been declared to apply
in relation to an ADI; and
for the purposes of paragraph—providing rules in
relation to the provision of certain kinds of finance by
non-ADI lenders.
It is intended that APRA, in taking actions to address risks to
financial system stability in Australia, may consider specific
sources of systemic risks, whether geographic, sectoral or
otherwise.
This section does not apply to the following:
Divisions 4 (Mobilization of foreign currency) and 5
(Advances) of PartParts III (Foreign exchange, foreign investment etc.), IV
(Gold) and V (Interest rates);
any other provision of this Act, to the extent that it relates to
any of the provisions mentioned in paragraph or .
The following Acts are repealed:
Banking Act 1945;
Banking Act 1953.
Definitions
In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:
account-holder means an entity (as defined in section 960-100 of
the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997) that holds in its name, or
keeps in its name, (either alone or jointly with another entity) an
account or covered financial product with an ADI.
action that is likely to have a detrimental effect on financial
system stability in New Zealand includes an action that prevents or
interferes with an outsourcing arrangement.
ADI is short for authorised deposit-taking institution.
administrator, of a body corporate’s business, means an
administrator appointed under subsection 13A to take control of
the body corporate’s business.
advance includes loan.
appointed auditor means an auditor appointed in accordance with
the prudential standards.
approved form means a form approved, in writing, by APRA.
APRA means the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
APRA member has the same meaning as in the Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998.
APRA Special Account has the same meaning as in the Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998.
APRA staff member has the same meaning as in the Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998.
ASIC means the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission.
Australia includes the Territories.
Australian business assets and liabilities, of a foreign ADI, has
the meaning given by subsection 11E.
authorised deposit-taking institution means a body corporate in
relation to which an authority under subsection 9 is in force.
authorised NOHC means a body corporate:
in relation to which an authority under subsection 11AA is
in force; and
that is a NOHC of an ADI or ADIs.
Banking Act statutory manager has the meaning given by
subsection 13A.
banking business means:
a business that consists of banking within the meaning of
paragraph 51(xiii) of the Constitution; or
a business that is carried on by a corporation to which
paragraph 51of the Constitution applies and that
consists, to any extent, of:
both taking money on deposit (otherwise than as
part-payment for identified goods or services) and
making advances of money; or
other financial activities prescribed by the regulations
for the purposes of this definition.
business day means a day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a
public holiday or bank holiday in the place concerned.
civil penalty provision: a subsection of this Act (or a section of this
Act that is not divided into subsections) is a civil penalty provision
if:
Note: the words “civil penalty” and one or more amounts in penalty
units are set out at the foot of the subsection (or section); or
another provision of this Act specifies that the subsection (or
section) is a civil penalty provision.
Schedule 2 deals with contraventions of civil penalty provisions, and
treats people who are involved in various ways in such a
contravention as if they had contravened the provision concerned.
covered bond has the meaning given by subsection 26.
covered bond liabilities has the meaning given by
subsections 26 and.
covered bond special purpose vehicle has the meaning given by
subsection 26.
covered financial product has the meaning given by
subsection.
cover pool has the meaning given by subsection 26.
declaration time for an ADI means the time the ADI becomes a
declared ADI.
declared ADI means an ADI specified in a declaration under
section 16AD as an ADI in relation to which Subdivision C of
Division 2AA of Part II applies.
direction under this Act means a direction under any of the
following provisions:
section 11CA;
section 11CC;
section 13E;
section 17;
section 23;
section 29;
section 31F.
external administrator means any of the following:
a liquidator;
a receiver, manager, managing controller, receiver and
manager or other controller (other than a Banking Act
statutory manager);
a voluntary administrator or administrator of a deed of a
company arrangement or a scheme manager.
Expressions used in this definition have the same meanings as they
have in the Corporations Act 2001.
Finance Minister means the Minister who administers the Public
Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013.
Financial Claims Scheme Special Account has the same meaning
as in the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998.
financial market has the same meaning as in Chapter 7 of the
Corporations Act 2001.
Financial System Stability Special Account means the Financial
System Stability Special Account established by section 70E.
foreign ADI means a body corporate that:
is a foreign corporation within the meaning of
paragraph 51of the Constitution; and
is authorised to carry on banking business in a foreign
country; and
has been granted an authority under section 9 to carry on
banking business in Australia.
holding company, of a body corporate, means another body
corporate of which the first body corporate is a subsidiary.
industry support contract means a contract under which
emergency financial support is to be provided by parties to the
contract to any ADI that is a party to the contract if a specified
event occurs. The contract may also deal with matters associated
with the provision of the financial support.
insolvent, in relation to a body corporate, means that the body
corporate is not able to pay all its debts as and when they become
due and payable.
investigator means a person APRA appoints under
subsection 13, 13A or 61.
issuing ADI has the meaning given by subsection 26.
lawyer means a duly qualified legal practitioner and, in relation to
a person, means such a practitioner acting for the person.
liquidator includes a provisional liquidator.
listing rules has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act
2001.
net credit balance:
the net credit balance, at a time, of an account means the
excess of the balance of the account in credit in favour of the
account-holder at that time over the amount (if any) of fees,
charges and duties that are identified under the agreement
under which the account is kept and are payable by the
account-holder to the ADI at that time; and
the net credit balance, at a time, of a covered financial
product that is not an account means the amount owed to the
account-holder at that time under the terms of the agreement
under which the covered financial product is kept.
New Zealand registered bank means a registered bank, as defined
in section 2 of the Reserve Bank of New Zealand Act 1989 of New
Zealand, that carries on a business in New Zealand.
NOHC is short for non-operating holding company.
NOHC authority means an authority under subsection 11AA.
NOHC/NOHC subsidiary has the meaning given by
subsection 13D.
non-ADI lender has the meaning given by section 38B.
non-ADI lender rule means a rule under section 38C.
non-operating holding company means, in relation to a body
corporate, a body corporate:
of which the first body corporate is a subsidiary; and
that does not carry on a business (other than a business
consisting of the ownership or control of other bodies
corporate); and
that is incorporated in Australia.
outsourcing arrangement means an arrangement for the business
of a New Zealand registered bank, or functions relating to such
business, to be carried on by an entity other than the bank.
personal information has the same meaning as in the Privacy Act
1988.
prescribed New Zealand authority means the following:
the Reserve Bank of New Zealand;
an authority of the government of New Zealand that:
has statutory responsibilities relating to prudential
regulation or financial system stability; and
is prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this
definition.
protected account has the meaning given by subsections,,
and.
prudential matters means matters relating to:
the conduct of any part of the affairs of, or the structuring or
organising of, an ADI, an authorised NOHC, a relevant group
of bodies corporate, or a particular member or members of
such a group, in such a way as:
to keep the ADI, NOHC, group or member or members
of the group in a sound financial position; or
to facilitate resolution of the ADI, NOHC, group or
member or members of the group; or
to protect the interests of depositors of any ADI; or
not to cause or promote instability in the Australian
financial system; or
not to cause or promote instability in the New Zealand
financial system; or
the conduct of any part of the affairs of an ADI, an authorised
NOHC, a relevant group of bodies corporate, or a particular
member or members of such a group, with integrity,
prudence and professional skill.
prudential requirement regulation means a regulation under.
prudential standard means a standard under section 11AF.
recapitalisation direction means a direction given by APRA under
subsection 13E or.
related body corporate, in relation to a body corporate, means a
body corporate that is related to the first-mentioned body, as
determined in accordance with subsection 5(2A).
relevant group of bodies corporate has the meaning given by
subsection 5.
resolution means the process by which APRA or other relevant
persons manage or respond to an entity:
being unable to meet its obligations; or
being considered likely to be unable, or being considered
likely to become unable, to meet its obligations; or
suspending payment, or being considered likely to suspend
payment;
including through the exercise of powers and functions under this
Act or another law.
section 9 authority means an authority under subsection 9.
senior manager of an ADI or an authorised NOHC or the
Australian operations of a foreign ADI means a person who has or
exercises any of the senior management responsibilities (within the
meaning of the prudential standards) for the ADI or NOHC or for
the Australian operations of the foreign ADI, as the case may be.
subsidiary has the meaning given by subsection.
the Reserve Bank means the Reserve Bank of Australia.
transferred liabilities determination means a determination under
subsection 16AIA.
ultimate termination of control has the meaning given by
subsection 13C.
Subsidiary
For the purposes of this Act, the question whether a body corporate
is a subsidiary of another body corporate is to be determined in the
same way as that question is determined for the purposes of the
Corporations Act 2001.
Related bodies corporate
For the purposes of this Act, the question whether a body corporate
is related to another body corporate is to be determined in the same
way as that question is determined for the purposes of the
Corporations Act 2001.
Relevant group of bodies corporate
For the purposes of this Act:
an ADI and its subsidiaries together constitute a relevant
group of bodies corporate; and
an authorised NOHC and its subsidiaries together also
constitute a relevant group of bodies corporate.
Protected account
Subject to subsections, and, a protected account is an
account or covered financial product that is kept by an
account-holder (whether alone or jointly with one or more other
account-holders) with an ADI and either:
is an account that is prescribed by the regulations for the
purposes of this paragraph; or
is an account, or covered financial product, that is kept under
an agreement between the account-holder and the ADI
requiring the ADI to pay the account-holder, on demand by
the account-holder or at a time agreed by them, the net credit
balance of the account or covered financial product at the
time of the demand or the agreed time (as appropriate).
Note: Paragraph —the regulations may prescribe the account by reference
to a class of accounts: see subsection 13 of the Legislation Act
2003.
An account is not a protected account on and after 12 October
2011 unless:
it is recorded in Australian currency; or
it is kept with an ADI that is a declared ADI on 12 October
2011.
A covered financial product that is kept with an ADI and is not an
account is not a protected account if APRA applies under
section 16AAA for an order that the ADI be wound up.
An account or covered financial product is not a protected account
if the account or covered financial product is prescribed by the
regulations for the purposes of this subsection.
Note: The regulations may prescribe the account or covered financial
product by reference to a class of accounts or financial products: see
subsection 13 of the Legislation Act 2003.
Covered financial product
The Minister may declare that a specified financial product is a
covered financial product.
Note: The declaration may specify the product by reference to a class of
financial products: see subsection 13 of the Legislation Act 2003.
A declaration made under subsection, or an amendment of the
declaration, is a legislative instrument, but section 42
(disallowance) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply to the
declaration or amendment.
Note: Part 4 of Chapter 3 (sunsetting) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not
apply to the declaration or amendment: see regulations made for the
purposes of paragraph 54of that Act.
Despite subsection 12 of the Legislation Act 2003, the
declaration or amendment commences from the time it is made.
Subsection 12 (retrospective application of legislative
instruments) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply to the
declaration or amendment.
Nothing in Part II or V, or in sections 61 to 69 (inclusive), applies
with respect to State banking.
Subject to section 6A, this Act extends to all the Territories.
6A Cessation of application of Act to Territory
The Treasurer may, by legislative instrument, declare that, on a
date specified in the instrument, this Act shall cease to extend to an
external Territory specified in the instrument, and, on and after the
date specified in such an instrument, this Act does not extend to the
Territory so specified and a reference in this Act, other than this
section, to a Territory does not include a reference to the Territory
so specified.
The Criminal Code applies to all offences against this Act.
Person other than a body corporate must not carry on banking
business
A person commits an offence if:
the person carries on any banking business in Australia; and
the person is not a body corporate; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the person.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
If a person carries on banking business in circumstances that give
rise to the person committing an offence against subsection, the
person commits an offence against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the person committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
A body corporate commits an offence if:
the body corporate carries on any banking business in
Australia; and
the body corporate is not the Reserve Bank; and
the body corporate is not an ADI; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the body corporate.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
If a body corporate carries on banking business in circumstances
that give rise to the body corporate committing an offence against
subsection, the body corporate commits an offence against that
subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the body corporate committing the offence
continue (including the day of conviction for any such
offence or any later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
A body corporate which desires authority to carry on banking
business in Australia may apply in writing to APRA for authority
accordingly.
Note: The body corporate may also need to consider the implications of the
Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 and the Financial
Sector (Shareholdings) Act 1998.
APRA may, by legislative instrument, set criteria for the granting
of an authority to carry on banking business in Australia.
If an application has been made, APRA may grant the body
corporate an authority to carry on banking business in Australia.
The authority must be in writing, and APRA must give the body
corporate written notice of the granting of the authority.
Note: For APRA’s power to revoke an authority, see section 9A.
Without limiting the circumstances in which APRA may refuse an
application by a body corporate for authority to carry on banking
business in Australia, APRA may refuse such an application if the
body corporate is a subsidiary of another body corporate that does
not hold a NOHC authority.
If APRA grants an authority under subsection, APRA must
cause notice of that authority to be published in the Gazette. APRA
may also cause notice of that authority to be published in any other
way it considers appropriate.
A failure to comply with subsection does not affect the validity
of the authority.
Part VI applies to a decision to refuse an application under this
section.
9AA Conditions on an authority
APRA may, at any time, by giving written notice to a body
corporate:
impose conditions, or additional conditions, on the body
corporate’s section 9 authority; or
vary or revoke conditions imposed on the body corporate’s
section 9 authority.
The conditions must relate to prudential matters.
A condition may be expressed to have effect despite anything in
the prudential standards or the regulations.
Without limiting the conditions that APRA may impose on an
authority, APRA may make the authority conditional on another
body corporate, of which the body corporate is a subsidiary, being
an authorised NOHC.
If APRA imposes, varies or revokes the conditions on a body
corporate’s section 9 authority, APRA must:
give written notice to the body corporate; and
ensure that notice that the action has been taken is published
in the Gazette.
The taking of an action is not invalid merely because of a failure to
comply with subsection.
Part VI applies to the following decisions made under this section:
a decision to impose conditions, or additional conditions, on
a body corporate’s section 9 authority;
a decision to vary conditions imposed on a body corporate’s
section 9 authority.
9AB Breach of authority conditions
A body corporate commits an offence if:
the body corporate does an act or fails to do an act; and
Authority to carry on banking business Division 1
doing the act or failing to do the act results in a contravention
of a condition of the body corporate’s section 9 authority;
and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the body corporate.
Penalty: 300 penalty units.
If an individual:
commits an offence against subsection because of Part 2.4
of the Criminal Code; or
commits an offence under Part 2.4 of the Criminal Code in
relation to an offence against subsection;
he or she is punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding 60
penalty units.
An offence against this section is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see .1 of the Criminal Code.
9A Revocation of authority etc.
APRA must revoke a body corporate’s section 9 authority if:
the body corporate, by notice in writing to APRA, requests
the revocation of the authority; and
APRA is satisfied that the revocation of the authority:
would not be contrary to the national interest; and
would not be contrary to the interests of depositors of
the body corporate.
APRA may revoke a body corporate’s section 9 authority if APRA
is satisfied that:
the body corporate has, whether before or after the
commencement of this paragraph, provided, in connection
with its application for the authority, information that was
false or misleading in a material particular; or
the body corporate has failed to comply with any of the
following:
a requirement of this Act;
a requirement of the Financial Sector (Collection of
Data) Act 2001;
a requirement of the Financial Accountability Regime
Act 2023;
a requirement of the regulations or any other instrument
made under this Act;
a requirement of a provision of another law of the
Commonwealth, if the provision is specified in the
regulations;
a direction under this Act;
a condition of its section 9 authority; or
it would be contrary to the national interest for the authority
to remain in force; or
it would be contrary to financial system stability in Australia
for the authority to remain in force; or
it would be contrary to the interests of depositors of the body
corporate for the authority to remain in force; or
the body corporate has failed to pay:
an amount of levy or late penalty to which the Financial
Institutions Supervisory Levies Collection Act 1998
applies; or
an amount of charge fixed under section 51 of the
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998; or
the body corporate is insolvent and is unlikely to return to
solvency within a reasonable period of time; or
the body corporate has ceased to carry on banking business in
Australia; or
the body corporate is a foreign corporation within the
meaning of paragraph 51of the Constitution, and:
the body corporate is unlikely to be able to meet its
liabilities in Australia and is unlikely to be able to do so
within a reasonable period of time; or
Authority to carry on banking business Division 1
an authority (however described) for the body corporate
to carry on banking business in a foreign country has
been revoked or otherwise withdrawn in that foreign
country;
if the section 9 authority is to cease to have effect on a day
specified in the authority—it is unlikely to be appropriate, at
or before that day, to grant the body corporate a section 9
authority that is not subject to a time limit.
The procedures to be undergone before a revocation under this
subsection are set out in subsection. Those procedures apply
unless APRA determines under subsection that they are not to
apply.
Subject to subsection, APRA must not, under subsection,
revoke a body corporate’s section 9 authority unless:
APRA has given the body corporate a notice in writing
advising the body corporate:
that APRA is considering revoking the authority for the
reasons specified in the notice; and
that the body corporate may make submissions to
APRA, in accordance with the notice, about the possible
revocation; and
of the date by which any submissions must be made;
and
APRA has considered any submissions that were made by
the body corporate by the specified date.
The date mentioned in subparagraphmust be:
at least 90 days after the notice under paragraphof this
section was given; or
if the section 9 authority is to cease to have effect on a day
specified in the authority—at least 21 days after the notice
under paragraphof this section was given.
APRA may determine that the procedures in subsection do not
apply if APRA is satisfied that following those procedures could
result in a delay in revocation that would be:
contrary to the national interest; or
contrary to the interests of depositors with the body
corporate.
A revocation of a body corporate’s section 9 authority under
subsection or must be in writing, and APRA must give the
body corporate written notice of the revocation of the authority.
The notice of revocation of the authority may state that the
authority continues in effect in relation to a specified matter or
specified period, as though the revocation had not happened, for
the purposes of:
a specified provision of this Act or the regulations; or
a specified provision of another law of the Commonwealth
that is administered by APRA; or
a specified provision of the prudential standards;
and the statement has effect accordingly.
If APRA revokes a body corporate’s section 9 authority under
subsection or, APRA must cause notice of the revocation to
be published in the Gazette. APRA may also cause notice of the
revocation to be published in any other way it considers
appropriate.
A failure to comply with subsection (so far as it requires a body
corporate to be given written notice of a revocation) or with
subsection does not affect the validity of a revocation.
Part VI applies to the following decisions under this section:
a decision to refuse to revoke a body corporate’s section 9
authority;
a decision to revoke a body corporate’s section 9 authority,
unless:
APRA has determined, under subsection, that the
procedures in subsection do not apply; or
Authority to carry on banking business Division 1
the section 9 authority is an authority that is to cease to
have effect on a day specified in the authority.
9B Bodies that cease to exist or change their names
If APRA is satisfied that a body corporate that has been granted a
section 9 authority:
has ceased to exist; or
has changed its name;
APRA must cause notice of that fact to be published in the Gazette.
APRA may also cause notice of that fact to be published in any
other way it thinks appropriate.
If the body corporate has ceased to exist, its section 9 authority is
taken to be revoked on publication of the notice in the Gazette.
If the body corporate has changed its name, its section 9 authority
has effect after the publication of the notice in the Gazette as if it
had been granted to the body under its changed name.
9C Publication of list of ADIs
APRA may, from time to time, publish a list of ADIs:
in the Gazette; or
in such other manner as APRA determines.
An application under subsection 9 may state that the application
is for an authority to carry on banking business in Australia for a
limited time.
If APRA grants an authority under subsection 9 as a result of an
application made in accordance with subsection of this section:
the authority must state that it ceases to have effect on a day
specified in the authority; and
the authority ceases to have effect at the start of that day
(except to the extent, if any, that it is continued in effect
under subsection 9Aor section 9F, or extended under
section 9E), unless it is revoked earlier.
The day specified in the authority under paragraphmust be:
2 years after the day APRA grants the authority; or
if APRA considers that another day is appropriate—that
other day.
Despite subsection 9, Part VI does not apply to a decision to
refuse an application made in accordance with subsection of
this section, or to a decision to specify a particular day in the
authority under paragraphof this section.
Application for authority not subject to time limit
A section 9 authority granted to a body corporate as a result of an
application made in accordance with subsection does not
prevent the body corporate making, under section 9, a further
application for an authority that is not subject to a time limit.
If APRA decides to grant such an application, APRA may do so by
varying the section 9 authority to remove the time limit that applies
to the authority under subsection.
9E Authority to carry on banking business in Australia for a limited
time—extension
This section applies to a body corporate’s section 9 authority if the
authority is to cease to have effect on a day (the expiry day)
specified in the authority.
APRA may, at any time before the expiry day, vary the authority to
change the expiry day to a later day.
If APRA does so, APRA must:
give written notice to the body corporate; and
ensure that notice that the variation has been made is
published in the Gazette.
A failure to comply with subsection does not affect the validity
of the variation.
9F Authority to carry on banking business in Australia for a limited
time—continuation after expiry
This section applies to a body corporate’s section 9 authority if the
authority is to cease to have effect on a day (the expiry day)
specified in the authority.
APRA may, at any time before the expiry day, give the body
corporate a written notice stating that the authority continues in
effect, on and after the expiry day, in relation to a specified matter
or specified period for the purposes of:
a specified provision of this Act or the regulations; or
a specified provision of another law of the Commonwealth
that is administered by APRA; or
a specified provision of the prudential standards;
and the statement has effect accordingly.
10 APRA to be supplied with certain documents
An application under this Part by a body corporate shall be
accompanied by a copy of the Act, charter, deed of settlement,
memorandum of association and articles of association of the body
corporate, or other document by which the body corporate is
constituted.
Every copy of an Act, charter, deed of settlement, memorandum of
association, articles of association or other document furnished to
APRA under subsection shall be verified by a statutory
declaration made by a senior officer of the body corporate
concerned.
An ADI commits an offence if:
an alteration is made to the Act, charter, deed of settlement,
memorandum of association, articles of association,
constitution or other document by which the ADI was
constituted as a body corporate; and
the ADI does not, within 3 months of the making of the
alteration, give to APRA a written statement:
that sets out particulars of the alteration; and
that is verified by a statutory declaration made by a
senior officer of the ADI; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the ADI.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
APRA may determine that provisions of this Act do not apply
APRA may, in writing, determine that any or all of the following
provisions of this Act do not apply to a person while the
determination is in force:
a provision of Division 1, 1AA or 1A of Part II (other than
section 11A, 11B or 11C);
section 66;
section 66A;
section 67;
section 69.
The determination:
may be expressed to apply to a particular person or to a class
of persons; and
may specify the period during which the determination is in
force; and
may be made subject to specified conditions.
If APRA makes a determination that applies to a particular person,
APRA must also give the person written notice of the
determination.
A person commits an offence if:
the person does, or fails to do, an act; and
doing, or failing to do, the act results in a contravention of a
condition to which a determination under this section is
subject (being a determination that is in force and that applies
to the person).
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
If a person does or fails to do an act in circumstances that give rise
to the person committing an offence against subsection, the
person commits an offence against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the person committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
APRA may, in writing, vary or revoke a determination under this
section.
The following instruments made under this section are not
legislative instruments:
a determination that applies to a particular person;
an instrument varying or revoking a determination that
applies to a particular person.
Otherwise, an instrument made under this section is a legislative
instrument.
Part VI applies to the following decisions under this section:
a refusal to determine that one or more provisions of this Act
do not apply to a particular person;
a variation or revocation of an order under this section that
applies to a particular person.
Authority to be a NOHC of an ADI Division 1AA
Division 1AA—Authority to be a NOHC of an ADI
Authority to be a NOHC
A body corporate may apply in writing to APRA for an authority
under this section. The authority operates as an authority in relation
to the body corporate and any ADIs that are subsidiaries of the
body corporate from time to time.
Note 1: The body corporate may want the authority:
because APRA refuses or may refuse to grant a subsidiary of the
body corporate a section 9 authority unless the body corporate
holds a NOHC authority (see subsection 9(3A)); or
for a purpose connected with the Financial Sector (Shareholdings)
Act 1998.
Note 2: The body corporate may also need to consider the implications of the
Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 and the Financial
Sector (Shareholdings) Act 1998.
APRA may, by legislative instrument, set criteria for the granting
of an authority under this section.
APRA may grant the authority if it considers it is appropriate to do
so.
Note: For APRA’s power to revoke the authority, see section 11AB.
If APRA grants an authority under subsection, APRA must
cause notice of that authority to be published in the Gazette. APRA
may also cause notice of that authority to be published in any other
way it considers appropriate.
A failure to comply with subsection does not affect the validity
of the authority.
Part VI applies to a decision to refuse an application under this
section.
APRA may, at any time, by giving written notice to a body
corporate:
impose conditions, or additional conditions, on the body
corporate’s NOHC authority; or
vary or revoke conditions imposed on the body corporate’s
NOHC authority.
The conditions must relate to prudential matters.
A condition may be expressed to have effect despite anything in
the prudential standards or the regulations.
If APRA imposes, varies or revokes the conditions on a body
corporate’s NOHC authority, APRA must:
give written notice to the body corporate; and
ensure that notice that the action has been taken is published
in the Gazette.
The taking of an action is not invalid merely because of a failure to
comply with subsection.
Part VI applies to the following decisions made under this section:
a decision to impose conditions, or additional conditions, on
a body corporate’s NOHC authority;
a decision to vary conditions imposed on a body corporate’s
NOHC authority.
Breach of authority conditions
A body corporate commits an offence if:
the body corporate does an act or fails to do an act; and
doing the act or failing to do the act results in a contravention
of a condition of the body corporate’s NOHC authority; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the body corporate.
Penalty: 300 penalty units.
Authority to be a NOHC of an ADI Division 1AA
If an individual:
commits an offence against subsection because of Part 2.4
of the Criminal Code; or
commits an offence under Part 2.4 of the Criminal Code in
relation to an offence against subsection;
he or she is punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding 60
penalty units.
An offence against this section is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see .1 of the Criminal Code.
Revocation of authority etc.
APRA must revoke a NOHC authority granted to a body corporate
if:
the body corporate, by notice in writing to APRA, requests
the revocation of the authority; and
APRA is satisfied that revocation of the authority:
would not be contrary to the national interest; and
would not be contrary to the interests of depositors of
any ADI that is a subsidiary of the body corporate.
APRA may revoke a NOHC authority granted to a body corporate
if APRA is satisfied that:
the body corporate has, whether before or after the
commencement of this paragraph, provided, in connection
with its application for the authority, information that was
false or misleading in a material particular; or
the body corporate has failed to comply with any of the
following:
a requirement of this Act;
a requirement of the Financial Sector (Collection of
Data) Act 2001;
a requirement of the Financial Accountability Regime
Act 2023;
a requirement of the regulations or any other instrument
made under this Act;
a requirement of a provision of another law of the
Commonwealth, if the provision is specified in the
regulations;
a direction under this Act;
a condition of its NOHC authority; or
the body corporate has ceased to be a NOHC of any ADI or
ADIs; or
it would be contrary to the national interest for the authority
to remain in force; or
it would be contrary to financial system stability in Australia
for the authority to remain in force; or
it would be contrary to the interests of depositors of any ADI
that is a subsidiary of the body corporate for the authority to
remain in force; or
the body corporate has failed to pay:
an amount of levy or late penalty to which the Financial
Institutions Supervisory Levies Collection Act 1998
applies; or
an amount of charge fixed under section 51 of the
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998.
The procedures to be undergone before a revocation under this
subsection are set out in subsection. Those procedures apply
unless APRA determines under subsection that they are not to
apply.
Subject to subsection, APRA must not, under subsection,
revoke a body corporate’s NOHC authority unless:
APRA has given the body corporate a notice in writing
advising the body corporate:
that APRA is considering revoking the authority for the
reasons specified in the notice; and
that the body corporate may make submissions to
APRA, in accordance with the notice, about the possible
revocation; and
Authority to be a NOHC of an ADI Division 1AA
of the date by which any submissions must be made
(being a date at least 90 days after the giving of the
notice); and
APRA has considered any submissions that were made by
the body corporate by the specified date.
APRA may determine that the procedures in subsection do not
apply if APRA is satisfied that following those procedures could
result in a delay in revocation that would be:
contrary to the national interest; or
contrary to the interests of depositors of any ADI that is a
subsidiary of the body corporate.
A revocation of a body corporate’s NOHC authority under
subsection or must be in writing, and APRA must give the
body corporate written notice of the revocation of the authority.
The notice of the revocation of the authority may state that the
authority continues in effect in relation to a specified matter or
specified period, as though the revocation had not happened, for
the purposes of:
a specified provision of this Act or the regulations; or
a specified provision of another law of the Commonwealth
that is administered by APRA; or
a specified provision of the prudential standards;
and the statement has effect accordingly.
If APRA revokes a body corporate’s NOHC authority under
subsection or, APRA must cause notice of the revocation to
be published in the Gazette. APRA may also cause notice of the
revocation to be published in any other way it considers
appropriate.
A failure to comply with subsection (so far as it requires a body
corporate to be given written notice of a revocation) or with
subsection does not affect the validity of a revocation.
Part VI applies to the following decisions under this section:
a decision to refuse to revoke a NOHC authority granted to a
body corporate;
a decision to revoke a NOHC authority granted to a body
corporate, unless APRA has determined, under
subsection, that the procedures in subsection do not
apply.
Bodies that cease to exist or change their names
If APRA is satisfied that a body corporate that has been granted a
NOHC authority:
has ceased to exist; or
has changed its name;
APRA must cause notice of that fact to be published in the Gazette.
APRA may also cause notice of that fact to be published in any
other way it thinks appropriate.
If the body corporate has ceased to exist, any NOHC authority
granted to the body corporate that is still in force is taken to be
revoked on publication of the notice in the Gazette.
If the body corporate has changed its name, any NOHC authority
granted to the body corporate that is still in force has effect after
the publication of the notice in the Gazette as if it had been granted
to the body under its changed name.
Publication of list of NOHCs
APRA may, from time to time, publish a list of authorised NOHCs:
in the Gazette; or
in such other manner as APRA determines.
Authority to be a NOHC of an ADI Division 1AA
APRA may give notice to ensure that ADI has an authorised
NOHC
This section applies if:
a body corporate is a holding company of an ADI; and
the ADI is not a subsidiary of an authorised NOHC. APRA may, by notice in writing to the body corporate, require it to
ensure, in accordance with the conditions (if any) specified in the
notice, that either of the following occurs:
the body corporate becomes an authorised NOHC of the
ADI;
a subsidiary of the body corporate becomes an authorised
NOHC of the ADI.
Note: See Part 4A of the Financial Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act
1999 for other provisions that deal with a restructure arrangement to
make an operating body a subsidiary of a NOHC.
The notice may deal with the time by which, or period during
which, it is to be complied with.
The body corporate has power to comply with the notice despite
anything in its constitution or any contract or arrangement to which
it is a party.
APRA may, by notice in writing to the body corporate, vary the
notice mentioned in subsection if, at the time of the variation, it
considers that the variation is necessary and appropriate.
The notice mentioned in subsection has effect until APRA
revokes it by notice in writing to the body corporate. APRA may
revoke the notice mentioned in subsection if, at the time of
revocation, it considers that the notice is no longer necessary or
appropriate.
Part VI applies to a decision to give a notice under subsection.
Section 11CG applies in relation to a notice to a body corporate
under subsection in the same way in which it applies to a
direction to an ADI under Subdivision B of Division 1BA.
However, section 11CG does not apply to a contravention by a
body corporate of a requirement in a notice under subsection if:
the contravention happens merely because APRA refuses to
grant the body corporate (or its subsidiary) an authority under
subsection 11AA; and
APRA’s reasons for that refusal do not include the reason
that one or more conditions specified in the notice are not
satisfied.
Prudential supervision and monitoring of ADIs and authorised NOHCs Division 1A
Division 1A—Prudential supervision and monitoring of
ADIs and authorised NOHCs
Subdivision A—Prudential supervision and monitoring of ADIs
and authorised NOHCs generally
APRA may make prudential standards for ADIs and
authorised NOHCs
APRA may, in writing, determine standards in relation to
prudential matters to be complied with by:
all ADIs; or
all authorised NOHCs; or
the subsidiaries of ADIs or authorised NOHCs; or
a specified class of ADIs, authorised NOHCs or subsidiaries
of ADIs or authorised NOHCs; or
one or more specified ADIs, authorised NOHCs or
subsidiaries of ADIs or authorised NOHCs.
A standard may impose different requirements to be complied
with:
in different situations; or
in respect of different activities;
including requirements to be complied with by different classes of
ADIs, authorised NOHCs or subsidiaries of ADIs or authorised
NOHCs.
Without limiting the prudential matters in relation to which APRA
may determine a standard, a standard may require:
each ADI or authorised NOHC; or
each ADI or authorised NOHC included in a specified class
of ADIs or authorised NOHCs; or
each subsidiary of an ADI or of an authorised NOHC; or
each subsidiary of an ADI or of an authorised NOHC,
included in a specified class of subsidiaries; or
a specified ADI or authorised NOHC; or
each of 2 or more specified ADIs or authorised NOHCs; or
a specified subsidiary of an ADI or of an authorised NOHC;
or
each of 2 or more specified subsidiaries of ADIs or of
authorised NOHCs;
to ensure that its subsidiaries (or particular subsidiaries), or it and
its subsidiaries (or particular subsidiaries), collectively satisfy
particular requirements in relation to prudential matters.
Without limiting the prudential matters in relation to which APRA
may determine a standard, a standard may provide for matters
relating to:
the appointment of auditors; or
the conduct of audits.
A standard may provide for APRA to exercise powers and
discretions under the standard, including (but not limited to)
discretions to approve, impose, adjust or exclude specific
prudential requirements in relation to one or more specified ADIs
or authorised NOHCs, or one or more specified subsidiaries of
ADIs or authorised NOHCs.
APRA may, in writing, vary or revoke a standard.
A standard referred to in paragraph, or an instrument varying
or revoking such a standard, has effect:
from the day on which the standard, variation or revocation is
made; or
if the standard, variation or revocation specifies a later day—
from that later day.
If APRA determines or varies a standard referred to in
paragraphit must, as soon as practicable:
give a copy of the standard, or of the variation, to the ADI,
authorised NOHC or subsidiary, or to each ADI, authorised
NOHC or subsidiary, to which the standard applies; and
Prudential supervision and monitoring of ADIs and authorised NOHCs Division 1A
give a copy of the standard, or of the variation, to the
Treasurer.
If APRA revokes a standard referred to in paragraphit must,
as soon as practicable:
give notice of the revocation to the ADI, authorised NOHC
or subsidiary, or to each ADI, authorised NOHC or
subsidiary, to which the standard applied; and
give a copy of the revocation to the Treasurer.
A failure to comply with subsection or does not affect
the validity of the action concerned.
The following instruments made under this section are not
legislative instruments:
a standard referred to in paragraph;
an instrument varying or revoking a standard referred to in
paragraph.
Otherwise, an instrument made under this section is a legislative
instrument.
A standard may provide for a matter by applying, adopting or
incorporating, with or without modification, any matter contained
in an instrument or other writing as in force or existing from time
to time, despite:
section 46AA of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901; and
section 14 of the Legislation Act 2003.
Part VI applies to the following decisions under this section:
a decision to determine a standard referred to in
paragraph;
a decision to vary such a standard.
In this section:
Territory means a territory to which this Act extends.
Obligation to comply with the prudential standards
An ADI, authorised NOHC or a subsidiary of an ADI or authorised
NOHC to which a prudential standard applies must comply with
the standard.
Prudential requirements may also be prescribed by the
regulations
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to requiring
ADIs, authorised NOHCs, subsidiaries of ADIs and subsidiaries of
authorised NOHCs to observe such requirements in relation to
prudential matters as are specified in, or ascertained in accordance
with, the regulations.
APRA to monitor prudential matters
The functions of APRA include:
the collection and analysis of information in respect of
prudential matters relating to ADIs and authorised NOHCs;
the encouragement and promotion of the carrying out by
ADIs and authorised NOHCs of sound practices in relation to
prudential matters; and
the evaluation of the effectiveness and carrying out of those
practices.
Division not to limit operation of other provisions
Nothing in this Division is intended to limit the operation of any
other provision of this Act or of the Reserve Bank Act 1959.
Subdivision B—Conversion and write-off provisions
Definitions
In this Subdivision:
Prudential supervision and monitoring of ADIs and authorised NOHCs Division 1A
clearing and settlement facility has the meaning given by the
Corporations Act 2001.
conversion and write-off provisions means the provisions of the
prudential standards that relate to the conversion or writing off of:
Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; or
any other instrument.
conversion entity: an entity (the first entity) is a conversion entity
for an instrument if:
the instrument is issued by another entity, or another entity is
a party to the instrument; and
the instrument converts, in accordance with the terms of the
instrument, into one or more ordinary shares or mutual equity
interests of the first entity.
converts: an instrument converts into one or more ordinary shares
or mutual equity interests of an entity including by redeeming or
cancelling the instrument or rights under the instrument, and
replacing the instrument or rights with ordinary shares or mutual
equity interests (as the case requires).
mutual equity interests has the same meaning as in the prudential
standards.
operating rules has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act
2001.
related subsidiary of an ADI means a subsidiary of a holding
company of the ADI.
specified law means any of the following:
the Financial Sector (Shareholdings) Act 1998;
the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975;
Chapter 6 of the Corporations Act 2001 (takeovers);
any other Australian law, or law of a foreign country or part
of a foreign country, prescribed by the regulations for the
purposes of this paragraph.
Application
This section applies in relation to an instrument that contains terms
that are for the purposes of the conversion and write-off provisions
and that is issued by, or to which any of the following is a party:
an ADI;
a holding company of an ADI;
a subsidiary or related subsidiary of an ADI;
an entity of a kind prescribed by the regulations for the
purposes of this paragraph.
Conversion of instrument despite other laws etc.
The instrument may be converted in accordance with the terms of
the instrument despite:
any Australian law or any law of a foreign country or a part
of a foreign country, other than a specified law; and
the constitution of any of the following entities (the relevant
entity):
the entity issuing the instrument;
any entity that is a party to the instrument;
any conversion entity for the instrument; and
any contract or arrangement to which a relevant entity is a
party; and
any listing rules or operating rules of a financial market in
whose official list a relevant entity is included; and
any operating rules of a clearing and settlement facility
through which the instrument is traded.
Write-off of instrument despite other laws etc.
The instrument may be written off in accordance with the terms of
the instrument despite:
any Australian law or any law of a foreign country or a part
of a foreign country; and
Prudential supervision and monitoring of ADIs and authorised NOHCs Division 1A
The constitution of either of the following entities (the
relevant entity):
the entity issuing the instrument;
any entity that is a party to the instrument; and
any contract or arrangement to which a relevant entity is a
party; and
any listing rules or operating rules of a financial market in
whose official list a relevant entity is included; and
any operating rules of a clearing and settlement facility
through which the instrument is traded.
Conversion or write-off etc. not grounds for denial of
obligations
This section applies if an entity (the first entity) is party to a
contract, whether the proper law of the contract is:
Australian law (including the law of a State or Territory); or
law of a foreign country (including the law of part of a
foreign country).
None of the matters mentioned in subsection allows the
contract, or a party to the contract (other than the first entity), to do
any of the following:
deny any obligation under the contract;
accelerate any debt under the contract;
close out any transaction relating to the contract;
enforce any security under the contract.
The matters are as follows:
a relevant instrument being converted in accordance with the
terms of the instrument;
a relevant instrument being written off in accordance with the
terms of the instrument;
the making of a determination (however described) by APRA
that results in a relevant instrument being required to be
converted or written off in accordance with the terms of the
instrument.
In this section:
relevant instrument means:
an instrument to which section 11CAB applies:
that is issued by the first entity; or
to which the first entity is a party; or
for which the first entity is a conversion entity; or
if the first entity is a body corporate that is a member of a
relevant group of bodies corporate—an instrument to which
section 11CAB applies:
that is issued by another member of the group; or
to which another member of the group is a party; or
for which another member of the group is a conversion
entity.
APRA may give directions in certain circumstances
APRA may give a body corporate that is an ADI or an authorised
NOHC a direction of a kind specified in subsection if APRA
has reason to believe that:
the body corporate has contravened a provision of:
this Act; or
the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001; or
the body corporate has contravened a prudential requirement
regulation or a prudential standard; or
the body corporate is likely to contravene this Act, a
prudential requirement regulation, a prudential standard or
the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001, and the
direction is reasonably necessary for one or more prudential
matters relating to the body corporate; or
the body corporate has contravened a condition or direction
under this Act or the Financial Sector (Collection of Data)
Act 2001; or
the direction is necessary in the interests of:
if the body corporate is an ADI—depositors of the ADI;
or
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC—
depositors of any ADI that is a subsidiary of the NOHC;
or
the body corporate is, or is about to become, unable to meet
its liabilities; or
there is, or there might be, a material risk to the security of
the body corporate’s assets; or
there has been, or there might be, a material deterioration in
the body corporate’s financial condition; or
the body corporate is conducting its affairs in an improper or
financially unsound way; or
the failure to issue a direction would materially prejudice the
interests of:
if the body corporate is an ADI—depositors of the ADI;
or
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC—
depositors of any ADI that is a subsidiary of the NOHC;
or
the body corporate is conducting its affairs in a way that may
cause or promote instability in the Australian financial
system.
APRA may give a body corporate that is an ADI or is an
authorised NOHC a direction of a kind specified in subsection
if APRA has reason to believe that:
a subsidiary of the body corporate has contravened a
provision of:
this Act; or
the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001; or
a subsidiary of the body corporate has contravened a
prudential requirement regulation or a prudential standard; or
a subsidiary of the body corporate is likely to contravene this
Act, a prudential requirement regulation, a prudential
standard or the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act
2001; or
the direction is in respect of a subsidiary of the body
corporate and is necessary in the interests of:
if the body corporate is an ADI—depositors of the ADI;
or
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC—
depositors of any ADI that is a subsidiary of the NOHC;
or
a subsidiary of the body corporate is, or is about to become,
unable to meet the subsidiary’s liabilities; or
APRA’s power to issue directions Division 1BA
there is, or there might be, a material risk to the security of
the assets of a subsidiary of the body corporate; or
there has been, or there might be, a material deterioration in
the financial condition of a subsidiary of the body corporate;
or
a subsidiary of the body corporate is conducting the
subsidiary’s affairs in an improper or financially unsound
way; or
a subsidiary of the body corporate is conducting the
subsidiary’s affairs in a way that may cause or promote
instability in the Australian financial system; or
a subsidiary of the body corporate is conducting the
subsidiary’s affairs in a way that may cause it to be unable to
continue to supply services to:
if the body corporate is an ADI—the ADI; or
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC—any ADI
that is a subsidiary of the NOHC; or
the direction is in respect of a subsidiary of the body
corporate and the failure to issue a direction would materially
prejudice the interests of:
if the body corporate is an ADI—depositors of the ADI;
or
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC—
depositors of any ADI that is a subsidiary of the NOHC.
However, APRA can only make a direction as a result of a ground
referred to in paragraph (1AA), , , , , , or if
APRA considers that the direction is reasonably necessary for one
or more prudential matters relating to the body corporate.
APRA may give a body corporate that is a subsidiary of an ADI or
of an authorised NOHC a direction of a kind specified in
subsection if:
APRA has given the ADI or authorised NOHC a direction
under subsection because one or more of the grounds
referred to in that subsection have been satisfied in respect of
the subsidiary; or
APRA may give the ADI or authorised NOHC a direction
under subsection because one or more of the grounds
referred to in that subsection have been satisfied in respect of
the subsidiary.
APRA cannot give a direction under subsection to a body
corporate of a kind specified in regulations (if any) made for the
purposes of this subsection.
Subsections, and do not limit each other.
The direction must:
specify:
be given by notice in writing to the body corporate; and
in the case of a direction under subsection (1AC)—the
ground referred to in subsection as a result of
which the direction is given; or
otherwise—the ground referred to in subsection or
as a result of which the direction is given.
In deciding whether to give a direction under subsection, or to a body corporate, APRA may disregard any external
support for the body corporate.
The regulations may specify that a particular form of support is not
external support for the purposes of subsection.
The kinds of direction that the body corporate may be given are
directions to do, or to cause a body corporate that is its subsidiary
to do, any one or more of the following:
to comply with the whole or a part of:
this Act; or
the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001;
to comply with the whole or a part of a condition or direction
referred to in paragraph;
to comply with the whole or a part of a prudential
requirement regulation or a prudential standard;
APRA’s power to issue directions Division 1BA
to order an audit of the affairs of the body corporate, at the
expense of the body corporate, by an auditor chosen by
APRA;
to remove a director or senior manager of the body corporate
from office;
to ensure a director or senior manager of the body corporate
does not take part in the management or conduct of the
business of the body corporate except as permitted by APRA;
to appoint a person or persons as a director or senior manager
of the body corporate for such term as APRA directs;
to remove any auditor of the body corporate from office and
appoint another auditor to hold office for such term as APRA
directs;
not to give any financial accommodation to any person;
not to accept the deposit of any amount;
not to borrow any amount;
not to accept any payment on account of share capital, except
payments in respect of calls that fell due before the direction
was given;
not to repay any amount paid on shares;
not to pay a dividend on any shares;
not to repay any money on deposit or advance;
not to pay or transfer any amount or asset to any person, or
create an obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so;
not to undertake any financial obligation (contingent or
otherwise) on behalf of any other person;
to make changes to the body corporate’s systems, business
practices or operations;
to reconstruct, amalgamate or otherwise alter all or part of
any of the following:
the business, structure or organisation of the body
corporate;
the business, structure or organisation of the group
constituted by the body corporate and its subsidiaries;
to do, or to refrain from doing, anything else in relation to the
affairs of the body corporate.
A direction under paragraph not to pay or transfer any amount
or asset does not apply to the payment or transfer of money
pursuant to an order of a court or a process of execution.
However, APRA must not direct, or give a direction that would
cause or require, a covered bond special purpose vehicle to:
deal, or not deal, with an asset to the extent that the asset
secures covered bond liabilities of an ADI; or
make a payment, or not make a payment, in relation to a
covered bond liability of an ADI.
Note: Covered bond special purpose vehicles hold assets that secure
liabilities in relation to covered bonds: see Division 3A of PartWithout limiting the generality of subsection, a direction
referred to in a paragraph of that subsection may:
deal with some only of the matters referred to in that
paragraph; or
deal with a particular class or particular classes of those
matters; or
make different provision with respect to different matters or
different classes of matters.
The kinds of direction that may be given as mentioned in
subsection are not limited by any other provision in this Part
(apart from subsection (2AA)).
The kinds of direction that may be given as mentioned in a
particular paragraph of subsection are not limited by any other
paragraph of that subsection.
Without limiting the generality of paragraph, a direction
under that paragraph to a foreign ADI may be any one or more of
the following:
a direction that the ADI act in a way so as to ensure that:
a particular asset, or a particular class of assets, of the
ADI is returned to the control (however described) of
the part of the ADI’s banking business that is carried on
in Australia; or
a particular liability, or a particular class of liabilities, of
the ADI ceases to be the responsibility (however
described) of the part of the ADI’s banking business
that is carried on in Australia;
a direction that the ADI not act in a way that has the result
that:
a particular asset, or a particular class of assets, of the
ADI ceases to be under the control (however described)
of the part of the ADI’s banking business that is carried
on in Australia; or
a particular liability, or a particular class of liabilities, of
the ADI becomes the responsibility (however described)
of the part of the ADI’s banking business that is carried
on in Australia.
The direction may deal with the time by which, or period during
which, it is to be complied with.
The body corporate has power to comply with the direction despite
anything in its constitution or any contract or arrangement to which
it is a party.
If the direction requires the body corporate to cause a subsidiary to
do, or to refrain from doing, an act or thing:
the body corporate has power to cause the subsidiary to do,
or to refrain from doing, the act or thing; and
the subsidiary has power to do, or to refrain from doing, the
act or thing;
despite anything in the subsidiary’s constitution or any contract or
arrangement to which the subsidiary is a party.
APRA may, by notice in writing to the body corporate, vary the
direction if, at the time of the variation, it considers that the
variation is necessary and appropriate.
The direction has effect until APRA revokes it by notice in writing
to the body corporate. APRA may revoke the direction if, at the
time of revocation, it considers that the direction is no longer
necessary or appropriate.
under subsection as a result of the ground referred to in
paragraph, , , or ; or
under subsection as a result of the ground referred to
in paragraph (1AA), , or ; or
under subsection as a result of the ground referred to
in paragraph (1AC)or , to the extent that the paragraph
relates to a ground referred to in paragraph (1AA), , or .
In this section, director has the same meaning as it has in the
Corporations Act 2001, and the affairs of a body corporate include
those set out in section 53 of that Act.
Note 1: Note 2: Senior manager is defined in  of this Act.
For further information about directions, see Subdivision C.
Subdivision B—Directions to enforce certified industry support
contracts
APRA may certify an industry support contract
APRA may certify an industry support contract if all of the parties
to the contract make a written request to APRA that the contract be
certified and APRA considers it appropriate to certify the contract.
The certification must be by notice in writing to the parties to the
contract.
Part VI applies to a refusal under this section to certify an industry
support contract.
5Provisions relating to the carrying on of banking business Part II
APRA’s power to issue directions Division 1BA
APRA may direct parties to an industry support contract to
comply with the contract
APRA may direct any ADI that is a party to an industry support
contract that is certified under section 11CB to carry out, or cease
to carry out, specified acts if APRA considers:
that carrying out, or ceasing to carry out, those acts, is
necessary in order for the terms of the contract to be fulfilled;
and
that the direction is in the interests of the depositors of one or
more of the ADIs that are parties to the contract.
The direction must be by notice in writing to the ADI.
The direction may deal with the time by which, or period during
which, it is to be complied with.
The ADI has power to comply with the direction despite anything
in its constitution or any contract or arrangement to which it is a
party.
APRA may vary the direction if, at the time of the variation, it
considers that the variation is necessary and appropriate.
The direction has effect until:
APRA revokes the direction by notice in writing to the ADI
(see subsection); or
APRA revokes the certification of the industry support
contract by notice in writing to the ADIs that are parties to it
(see subsection).
APRA may revoke the direction if, at the time of the revocation, it
considers that the direction is no longer necessary or appropriate.
APRA may revoke the certification of the industry support contract
if it considers that it is appropriate to do so for any reason.
Part VI applies to the following decisions made under this section:
a decision to give a direction;
a decision to vary a direction;
a revocation of the certification of an industry support
contract.
Subdivision C—General provisions relating to all directions
Direction not grounds for denial of obligations
This section applies if a body corporate is party to a contract,
whether the proper law of the contract is:
Australian law (including the law of a State or Territory); or
law of a foreign country (including the law of part of a
foreign country).
None of the matters mentioned in subsection allows the
contract, or a party to the contract (other than the body corporate),
to do any of the following:
deny any obligations under the contract;
accelerate any debt under the contract;
close out any transaction relating to the contract;
enforce any security under the contract.
This subsection has effect subject to subsections and of this
section and section 31B.
The matters are as follows:
the body corporate being given a direction by APRA under
Subdivision A or B or section 29;
if the body corporate is a member of a relevant group of
bodies corporate—another member of the group being given
a direction by APRA under Subdivision A or B or section 29.
If the body corporate is prevented from fulfilling its obligations
under the contract because of a direction under Subdivision A,
other than a direction under paragraph 11CA, or because of
a direction under section 29, the other party or parties to the
contract are, subject to any orders made under subsection,
relieved from obligations owed to the body corporate under the
contract.
A party to a contract to which subsection applies may apply to
the Federal Court of Australia for an order relating to the effect on
the contract of a direction under Subdivision A or section 29. The
order may deal with matters including (but not limited to):
requiring a party to the contract to fulfil an obligation under
the contract despite subsection;
obliging a party to the contract to take some other action (for
example, paying money or transferring property) in view of
obligations that were fulfilled under the contract before the
direction was made.
The order must not require a person to take action that would
contravene the direction, or any other direction under
Subdivision A or section 29.
Supply of information about issue and revocation of directions
Power to publish notice of directions in Gazette
APRA may publish in the Gazette notice of any direction made
under Subdivision A or B or section 29. The notice must include
the name of the ADI, authorised NOHC or other body corporate
given the direction and a summary of the direction.
Requirement to publish notice of revocation of certain directions in
Gazette
If APRA publishes notice of a direction made under Subdivision A
or B or section 29 and then later revokes the direction, APRA must
publish in the Gazette notice of that revocation as soon as
practicable after the revocation. Failure to publish notice of the
revocation does not affect the validity of the revocation.
Requirement to provide information about direction to Treasurer
and Reserve Bank
If the Treasurer or the Reserve Bank requests APRA to provide
information about:
any directions under Subdivision A or B or section 29 in
respect of a particular ADI, authorised NOHC or other body
corporate; or
any directions made during a specified period under
Subdivision A or B or section 29 in respect of any ADIs,
authorised NOHCs or other bodies corporate;
APRA must comply with the request.
Power to inform Treasurer and Reserve Bank of direction
APRA may provide any information that it considers appropriate to
the Treasurer or the Reserve Bank about any directions, or
revocations of directions, made under Subdivision A or B or
section 29, in respect of any ADI, authorised NOHC or other body
corporate, at any time.
Requirement to inform Treasurer and Reserve Bank of revocation
of direction if informed of making of direction
If APRA provides the Treasurer or the Reserve Bank with
information about a direction and then later revokes the direction,
APRA must notify that person of the revocation of the direction as
soon as practicable after the revocation. Failure to notify the person
does not affect the validity of the revocation.
Non-compliance with a direction
An ADI, authorised NOHC or other body corporate commits an
offence if:
it does, or fails to do, an act; and
doing, or failing to do, the act results in a contravention of a
direction given to it under Subdivision A or B or section 17,
23 or 29.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If an ADI, authorised NOHC or other body corporate does or fails
to do an act in circumstances that give rise to the ADI, NOHC or
other body corporate committing an offence against subsection,
the ADI, NOHC or other body corporate commits an offence
against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the ADI, NOHC or other body corporate
committing the offence continue (including the day of
conviction for any such offence or any later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
An officer of an ADI, authorised NOHC or other body corporate
commits an offence if:
the officer fails to take reasonable steps to ensure that the
ADI, NOHC or other body corporate complies with a
direction given to it under Subdivision A or B or section 17,
23 or 29; and
the officer’s duties include ensuring that the ADI, NOHC or
other body corporate complies with the direction, or with a
class of directions that includes the direction.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If an officer of an ADI, authorised NOHC or other body corporate
fails to take reasonable steps to ensure that the ADI, NOHC or
other body corporate complies with a direction given to it under
Subdivision A or B or section 17, 23 or 29 in circumstances that
give rise to the officer committing an offence against
subsection, the officer commits an offence against that
subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the officer committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
In this section, officer has the meaning given by section 9 of the
Corporations Act 2001.
Subdivision D—Secrecy and disclosure provisions relating to all
directions
APRA may determine that a direction is covered by secrecy
provision
This section applies if APRA has given an entity (the directed
entity) a direction under this Act.
APRA may determine, in writing, that the direction is covered
under this subsection if APRA considers that the determination is
necessary to protect the depositors of any ADI or to promote
financial system stability in Australia.
Note: For repeal of a determination, see subsection 33 of the Acts
Interpretation Act 1901.
APRA must give the directed entity a copy of the determination as
soon as practicable after making it.
An instrument under subsection is not a legislative instrument.
If APRA makes a determination under subsection, APRA must
consider whether it is appropriate in the circumstances to also
make a determination under either or both of subsections 11CK
and 11CK.
Secrecy relating to directions
A person commits an offence if:
APRA has given an entity (the directed entity) a direction
under this Act; and
the direction is covered by a determination under
subsection 11CH; and
the person is, or has been, covered by subsection of this
section in relation to the direction; and
the person discloses information; and
the information reveals the fact that the direction was made.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years.
A person is covered by this subsection in relation to the direction if
the person is:
the directed entity; or
an officer, employee or contractor of the directed entity at a
time on or after APRA gave the directed entity the direction;
or
any other person who, because of his or her employment, or
in the course of that employment, has acquired information
that reveals the fact that the direction was made.
Exception
Subsection does not apply if:
the disclosure is authorised by section 11CJ, 11CK, 11CL,
11CM, 11CN or 11CO; or
art II Provisions relating to the carrying on of banking business
Division 1BA APRA’s power to issue directions
the disclosure is required by an order or direction of a court
or tribunal.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to a matter in
subsection (see subsection 13.3 of the Criminal Code).
Disclosure of publicly available information
A person covered by subsection 11CI in relation to a direction
may disclose information that reveals the fact that the direction was
made, to the extent that the information has already been lawfully
made available to the public.
Disclosure allowed by APRA
A person covered by subsection 11CI in relation to a direction
may disclose information that reveals the fact that the direction was
made if:
a determination under subsection or allows the
disclosure by the person; and
if APRA has included conditions in the determination—those
conditions are satisfied.
Determinations relating to specified person
APRA may, in writing, make a determination allowing:
a specified person covered by subsection 11CI in relation
to a specified direction; or
a specified person covered by subsection 11CI in relation
to a direction that is in a specified class of directions;
to disclose specified information in relation to the direction.
An instrument under subsection is not a legislative instrument.
APRA must give a copy of the determination as soon as practicable
after making it to:
the directed entity; and
the person specified, or each person specified, in the
determination.
Determinations relating to specified class of persons
APRA may, by legislative instrument, make a determination
allowing a specified class of persons covered by
subsection 11CI in relation to a direction that is in a specified
class of directions to disclose:
specified kinds of information in relation to the direction; or
any kind of information in relation to the direction.
Conditions in determinations
APRA may include conditions in a determination under
subsection or that relate to any of the following:
the kind of entities to which the disclosure may be made;
the way in which the disclosure is to be made;
any other matter that APRA considers appropriate.
Disclosure to legal representative for purpose of seeking legal
advice
A person covered by subsection 11CI in relation to a direction
may disclose information that reveals the fact that the direction was
made if:
the disclosure is to the person’s legal representative; and
the purpose of the person making the disclosure is for the
legal representative to provide legal advice, or another legal
service, in relation to the direction.
Disclosure allowed by APRA Act secrecy provision
A person covered by subsection 11CI in relation to a direction
may disclose information that reveals the fact that the direction was
made if:
the person is:
an APRA member (within the meaning of
subsection 56 of the Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority Act 1998); or
an APRA staff member (within the meaning of that
subsection); or
a Financial Regulator Assessment Authority official
(within the meaning of that subsection); or
a Commonwealth officer (within the meaning of the
Crimes Act 1914) who is covered by paragraph of
the definition of officer in subsection 56 of the
Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998;
and
the information is protected information (within the meaning
of subsection 56 of that Act), or is contained in a protected
document (within the meaning of that subsection); and
the disclosure is in accordance with a provision mentioned in
paragraph 56of that Act.
Relationship to APRA Act secrecy provision
Disclosure of information in relation to a direction is not an
offence under section 56 of the Australian Prudential Regulation
Authority Act 1998 if the disclosure is authorised by section 11CJ,
11CK, 11CL, 11CN or 11CO.
Disclosure in circumstances set out in the regulations
A person covered by subsection 11CI in relation to a direction
may disclose information that reveals the fact that the direction was
made, if the disclosure is made in circumstances (if any) set out in
the regulations.
Disclosure for purpose
A person covered by subsection 11CI (the relevant person) in
relation to a direction may disclose information that reveals the fact
that the direction was made if:
another person covered by subsection 11CI in relation to
the direction disclosed that information to the relevant person
for a particular purpose in accordance with section 11CK,
11CL, 11CM or 11CN, or in accordance with a previous
operation of this section; and
the disclosure by the relevant person is for the same purpose.
Exceptions operate independently
Sections 11CJ, 11CK, 11CL, 11CM, 11CN and 11CO do not limit
each other.
Limited application of Division 2 etc. to foreign ADIs
The provisions listed in subsection do not apply in relation to:
business of a foreign ADI (other than Australian business
assets and liabilities); or
the management of a foreign ADI, to the extent that the
management relates to such business of the foreign ADI.
The provisions are as follows:
sections 12, 13BA and 13C, and Subdivision B of Division 2
(statutory management);
subsections 13A to, to the extent that those subsections
relate to statutory management;
sections 62B, 62C, 62D and 62E.
The following provisions do not apply in relation to a foreign ADI:
Division 2 (apart from the provisions in that Division listed
in subsection);
Division 2AA.
A foreign ADI commits an offence if:
it accepts a deposit from a person in Australia; and
before accepting the deposit, the foreign ADI did not inform
the person, in a manner approved by APRA, of the
requirements of this Act to which the foreign ADI is not
subject because of subsection.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
In this section:
asset has the same meaning as in the Financial Sector (Transfer
and Restructure) Act 1999.
Australian business assets and liabilities, of a foreign ADI, means
the following:
the assets and liabilities of the foreign ADI in Australia;
any other assets and liabilities of the foreign ADI that:
are related to its operations in Australia; and
if regulations are made for the purposes of this
subparagraph—are of a kind specified in those
regulations.
liability has the same meaning as in the Financial Sector (Transfer
and Restructure) Act 1999.
APRA’s power to apply for foreign ADI to be wound up
APRA may apply to the Federal Court of Australia for an order
that a foreign ADI be wound up if APRA considers that any of the
following requirements are satisfied:
the foreign ADI is unable to meet its liabilities in Australia,
or in one or more foreign countries, as and when they
become due and payable;
an application for the appointment of an external
administrator of the foreign ADI, or for a similar procedure
in respect of the foreign ADI, has been made in a foreign
country;
an external administrator has been appointed to the foreign
ADI, or a similar appointment has been made in respect of
the foreign ADI, in a foreign country.
To avoid doubt, subsection applies whether or not an ADI
statutory manager is in control of the Australian business assets
and liabilities of the foreign ADI.
The winding up of the foreign ADI is to be conducted in
accordance with the Corporations Act 2001.
Note: See Part 5.7 of the Corporations Act 2001.
If APRA makes an application under subsection, APRA must
inform the Minister of the application as soon as possible.
Assets of foreign ADIs
If a foreign ADI (whether in or outside Australia) suspends
payment or becomes unable to meet its obligations, the assets of
the ADI in Australia are to be available to meet the ADI’s
liabilities in Australia in priority to all other liabilities of the ADI.
Subsection does not constrain:
the exercise of powers or the performance of functions under
this Act of a Banking Act statutory manager of a foreign
ADI; or
an entity acting at the direction or request of a Banking Act
statutory manager of a foreign ADI exercising powers or
performing functions under this Act.
It is the duty of APRA to exercise its powers and functions under
this Division for the protection of the depositors of the several
ADIs and for the promotion of financial system stability in
Australia.
To avoid doubt, section 8A of the Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority Act 1998 (which deals with trans-Tasman
cooperation) applies to the performance of functions and the
exercise of powers by APRA under this Division.
ADI to supply information to APRA
APRA’s power to obtain information
APRA may, by notice in writing to an ADI, require the ADI to
supply it, within the time specified in the notice, with such
information relating to the ADI’s financial stability as is specified
in the notice. The requirement to supply information may include a
requirement to supply books, accounts or documents.
The information supplied in compliance with a requirement under
subsection must, if required by the notice, be verified by a
statutory declaration made by an officer of the ADI concerned who
is authorised by the ADI to make the declaration.
Information to be supplied if ADI unable, or likely to be unable, to
meet obligations
An ADI commits an offence if:
the ADI considers that it is likely to become unable to meet
its obligations, or that it is about to suspend payment; and
the ADI does not immediately inform APRA of the situation.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
APRA’s power to investigate or appoint an investigator if
information etc. not provided
APRA may investigate the affairs of an ADI, or appoint a person to
do so, if the ADI fails to comply with a requirement to provide
information, books, accounts or documents under this section.
Interpretation
In this section:
officer, in relation to an ADI, has the same meaning as in
section 11CG.
To avoid doubt, this section applies to an ADI that is, or becomes,
a Chapter 5 body corporate (within the meaning of the
Corporations Act 2001) in the same way as this section applies to
any other ADI.
Consequences of inability or failure of ADI etc. to meet certain
requirements
Appointment of investigator or administrator, or investigation or
control by APRA
APRA may investigate the affairs of an ADI, appoint a person to
investigate the affairs of an ADI, take control of the ADI’s
business or appoint an administrator to take control of the ADI’s
business if:
the ADI informs APRA that the ADI considers that it is
likely to become unable to meet its obligations or that it is
about to suspend payment; or
APRA considers that, in the absence of external support:
the ADI may become unable to meet its obligations; or
the ADI may suspend payment; or
it is likely that the ADI will be unable to carry on
banking business in Australia consistently with the
interests of its depositors; or
it is likely that the ADI will be unable to carry on
banking business in Australia consistently with the
stability of the financial system in Australia; or
the ADI becomes unable to meet its obligations or suspends
payment; or
an external administrator has been appointed to a holding
company of the ADI (or a similar appointment has been
made in a foreign country in respect of such a holding
company), and APRA considers that the appointment poses a
significant threat to:
the operation or soundness of the ADI; or
the interests of depositors of the ADI; or
the stability of the financial system in Australia; or
if the ADI is a foreign ADI:
an application for the appointment of an external
administrator of the foreign ADI, or for a similar
Note: procedure in respect of the foreign ADI, has been made
in a foreign country; or
an external administrator has been appointed to the
foreign ADI, or a similar appointment has been made in
respect of the foreign ADI, in a foreign country.
For information about another circumstance in which APRA may take
control of the business of an ADI, see section 65.
The regulations may specify that a particular form of support for an
ADI is not to be considered external support for the purposes of
paragraph.
APRA may take any of the actions mentioned in subsection in
relation to a body corporate (the target body corporate) if:
the target body corporate is any of the following:
an authorised NOHC of an ADI (the relevant ADI);
a subsidiary of an authorised NOHC of an ADI (also the
relevant ADI);
a subsidiary of an ADI (also the relevant ADI); and
the condition in subsection, or is satisfied; and
the target body corporate is incorporated in Australia; and
the target body corporate is not a body corporate of a kind
specified in regulations (if any) made for the purposes of this
paragraph.
The actions are as follows:
taking control of the business of the target body corporate;
appointing an administrator to take control of the business of
the target body corporate.
Note: For information about another circumstance in which APRA may take
control of the business of the target body corporate, see section 65.
The condition in this subsection is satisfied if:
either:
a Banking Act statutory manager has taken control of
the relevant ADI; or
the conditions in any or all of paragraphs, , ,
or are satisfied in relation to the relevant ADI,
and APRA intends that a Banking Act statutory
manager will take control of the relevant ADI; and
APRA considers that the target body corporate provides
services that are, or conducts business that is, essential to the
capacity of the relevant ADI to maintain its operations.
The condition in this subsection is satisfied if:
either:
a Banking Act statutory manager has taken control of
the relevant ADI; or
the conditions in any or all of paragraphs, , ,
or are satisfied in relation to the relevant ADI,
and APRA intends that a Banking Act statutory
manager will take control of the relevant ADI; and
APRA considers that it is necessary for a Banking Act
statutory manager to take control of the target body
corporate, in order to facilitate the resolution of any of the
following:
the relevant ADI;
an authorised NOHC of the relevant ADI;
a relevant group of bodies corporate of which the
relevant ADI is a member;
a particular member or particular members of such a
group.
The condition in this subsection is satisfied if:
there is an external administrator of the target body
corporate, or APRA considers that, in the absence of external
support:
the target body corporate may become unable to meet
its obligations; or
the target body corporate may suspend payment; and
APRA considers that it is necessary to take an action
mentioned in subsection in respect of the target body
corporate in order to enable the relevant ADI to maintain its
operations, or in order to facilitate the resolution of any of the
following:
the relevant ADI;
an authorised NOHC of the relevant ADI;
a relevant group of bodies corporate of which the
relevant ADI is a member;
a particular member or particular members of such a
group.
If:
Note: APRA is in control of a body corporate’s business under this
Subdivision—APRA is the Banking Act statutory manager
of the body corporate; or
an administrator appointed by APRA is in control of a body
corporate’s business under this Subdivision—the
administrator is the Banking Act statutory manager of the
body corporate.
This section and other provisions relating to statutory management do
not apply to the aspects described in subsection 11E of the business
and management of a foreign ADI.
If APRA appoints 2 or more Banking Act statutory managers of a
body corporate, or appoints one or more additional Banking Act
statutory managers of a body corporate:
the functions and powers under this Act of a Banking Act
statutory manager of the body corporate may be performed or
exercised by:
all of the Banking Act statutory managers of the body
corporate acting jointly; or
each of the Banking Act statutory managers of the body
corporate acting individually (except to the extent (if
any) specified in a notice given by APRA under
paragraph ); and
at the time of appointment, APRA may give all of the
Banking Act statutory managers of the body corporate a
notice in writing for the purposes of subparagraph,
specifying limits or conditions on their ability to perform
functions and exercise powers individually; and
treat a reference in this Act to a Banking Act statutory
manager as being a reference to whichever one or more of
those Banking Act statutory managers the case requires.
Priorities for application of assets of ADI in Australia
If an ADI becomes unable to meet its obligations or suspends
payment, the assets of the ADI in Australia are to be available to
meet the ADI’s liabilities in the following order:
first, the ADI’s liabilities (if any) to APRA because of the
rights APRA has against the ADI because of section 16AI or
16AIC;
second, the ADI’s debts (if any) to APRA under
section 16AO;
third, the ADI’s liabilities (if any) in Australia in relation to
protected accounts that account-holders keep with the ADI;
fourth, the ADI’s debts (if any) to the Reserve Bank;
fifth, the ADI’s liabilities (if any) under an industry support
contract that is certified under section 11CB;
sixth, the ADI’s other liabilities (if any) in the order of their
priority apart from this subsection.
Subsection does not constrain:
the exercise of powers or the performance of functions under
this Act of a Banking Act statutory manager of an ADI; or
an entity acting at the direction or request of a Banking Act
statutory manager of an ADI exercising powers or
performing functions under this Act.
The assets of an ADI are taken for the purposes of subsection
not to include any interest in an asset (or a part of an asset) in a
cover pool for which the ADI is the issuing ADI.
ADI’s assets must at least equal its deposit liabilities
An ADI commits an offence if:
it does not hold assets (excluding goodwill and any assets or
other amount excluded by the prudential standards for the
purposes of this subsection) in Australia of a value that is
equal to or greater than the total amount of its deposit
liabilities in Australia; and
APRA has not authorised the ADI to hold assets of a lesser
value.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
For the purposes of subsection:
the ADI’s deposit liabilities are taken not to include an
amount equal to the total of the face values of all of the
covered bonds issued by the ADI; and
the assets of the ADI are taken not to include:
any interest in an asset (or a part of an asset) in a cover
pool for which the ADI is the issuing ADI; or
any loan to a covered bond special purpose vehicle that
relates to an asset (or a part of an asset) in a cover pool
for which the ADI is the issuing ADI.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
If the circumstances relating to the asset holdings of an ADI are
such that give rise to the ADI committing an offence against
subsection, the ADI commits an offence against that subsection
in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the ADI committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
To avoid doubt, this section applies to a body corporate that is, or
becomes, a Chapter 5 body corporate (within the meaning of the
Corporations Act 2001) in the same way as this section applies to
any other body corporate.
Investigators—ADI must provide information and facilities
An investigator of the affairs of an ADI under section 13 or 13A is
entitled to have access to the books, accounts and documents of the
ADI, and to require the ADI to give the investigator information or
facilities to conduct the investigation.
An ADI commits an offence if:
the ADI does not give the investigator access to its books,
accounts and documents; or
the ADI fails to comply with a requirement made under
subsection for the provision of information or facilities.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If the ADI does or fails to do an act in circumstances that give rise
to the ADI committing an offence against subsection, the ADI
commits an offence against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the ADI committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
Part 6 of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998
prohibits certain disclosures of information received by
investigators under this Act.
Start of control of body corporate’s business by Banking Act
statutory manager
After the decision that a Banking Act statutory manager will take
control of a body corporate’s business is made, APRA must give
the body corporate written notice that the Banking Act statutory
manager will take, or is taking, control of the business.
Note: Subsections 15A and 16A also require APRA to give notice of
the taking of control.
A Banking Act statutory manager takes control of a body
corporate’s business:
at the time specified in a notice under this section as the time
when the Banking Act statutory manager takes control of the
business (which must not be earlier than the notice is given);
or
if a notice under this section does not specify a time as the
time when the Banking Act statutory manager takes control
of the business—at the time the notice is given.
A notice under subsection is not a legislative instrument.
Banking Act statutory managers—termination of control
Conditions necessary for termination of control
If APRA assumes control of a body corporate’s business or
appoints an administrator of a body corporate’s business, APRA
must ensure that either it or an administrator of the body
corporate’s business has control of the body corporate’s business
until:
APRA considers that it is no longer necessary for it or an
administrator to remain in control of the body corporate’s
business; or
APRA has applied for the body corporate to be wound up.
A termination of control that is permitted under this section is
called an ultimate termination of control.
Note: This provision does not prevent a change, or changes, between control
of a body corporate’s business by APRA and an administrator or
between administrators.
Events to precede termination
Before making an ultimate termination of control by a Banking Act
statutory manager of a body corporate’s business, APRA must:
ensure that directors of the body corporate have been
appointed or elected under the body corporate’s constitution
at a meeting called by the Banking Act statutory manager in
accordance with the body corporate’s constitution; or
appoint directors of the body corporate by instrument in
writing; or
ensure that a liquidator for the body corporate has been
appointed.
Power to terminate control
If the requirements in subsections and are satisfied, APRA
may by instrument in writing make an ultimate termination of
control of a body corporate’s business by a Banking Act statutory
manager.
If the Banking Act statutory manager at the time of the termination
is an administrator, the instrument of termination also operates as a
termination of the appointment of the administrator. A copy of the
instrument must be given to the administrator. However, mere
failure to give the copy to the administrator does not affect the
termination of the appointment.
Period of director’s appointment
If a director is elected or appointed under subsection, the
director takes office on the termination of the Banking Act
statutory manager’s control of the body corporate’s business. If the
director was appointed by APRA, the director holds office until the
body corporate’s next annual general meeting, subject to any terms
and conditions imposed by APRA on the director’s appointment. If
the director was appointed or elected under the body corporate’s
constitution, the constitution governs the appointment.
Note: For further information about what happens when a Banking Act
statutory manager is in control of a body corporate’s business, see
Subdivision B.
Subdivision AA—Recapitalisation directions by APRA
Who this Subdivision applies to
This Subdivision applies to an ADI that:
is a company that:
is registered under the Corporations Act 2001; and
has a share capital; and
does not have a Banking Act statutory manager.
Subsections and apply if:
APRA has given a recapitalisation direction to an ADI under
subsection 13E (the primary recapitalisation direction);
and
the ADI is a subsidiary of a NOHC/NOHC subsidiary; and
the NOHC/NOHC subsidiary is a company that:
is registered under the Corporations Act 2001; and
has a share capital; and
the NOHC/NOHC subsidiary does not have a Banking Act
statutory manager.
This Subdivision applies to the NOHC/NOHC subsidiary in the
same way that it does to an ADI.
However, disregard the following provisions in applying this
Subdivision to the NOHC/NOHC subsidiary:
subsection 13E;
subsection 13F.
In this section:
NOHC/NOHC subsidiary means a body corporate that is any of
the following:
an authorised NOHC;
a subsidiary of an authorised NOHC.
Recapitalisation direction by APRA
APRA may give an ADI a direction (a recapitalisation direction)
that requires the ADI to increase the ADI’s level of capital to the
level specified in the direction if:
the ADI informs APRA that:
the ADI considers that the ADI is likely to become
unable to meet the ADI’s obligations; or
the ADI is about to suspend payment; or
APRA considers that, in the absence of external support:
the ADI may become unable to meet the ADI’s
obligations; or
the ADI may suspend payment; or
it is likely that the ADI will be unable to carry on
banking business in Australia consistently with the
interests of the ADI’s depositors; or
it is likely that the ADI will be unable to carry on
banking business in Australia consistently with the
stability of the financial system in Australia; or
the ADI:
becomes unable to meet the ADI’s obligations; or
suspends payment.
Subsection applies if subsections 13D and apply to a
NOHC/NOHC subsidiary because of a primary recapitalisation
direction given to an ADI (as mentioned in subsection 13D).
For the purposes of facilitating compliance with the primary
recapitalisation direction, APRA may give the NOHC/NOHC
subsidiary a direction (also a recapitalisation direction) that
requires the NOHC/NOHC subsidiary to do anything that is
specified in the direction.
In deciding whether to give a recapitalisation direction, APRA
must consult with the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission (the ACCC), unless the ACCC notifies APRA, in
writing, that the ACCC does not wish to be consulted about:
the direction; or
a class of directions that includes the direction.
The regulations may specify that a particular form of support is not
external support for the purposes of paragraph.
A recapitalisation direction is not a legislative instrument.
A recapitalisation direction may deal with the time by which, or
period during which, it is to be complied with.
APRA may, by notice in writing to the ADI, vary the
recapitalisation direction if, at the time of the variation, it considers
that the variation is necessary and appropriate.
The direction has effect until APRA revokes it by notice in writing
to the ADI. APRA may revoke the direction if, at the time of
revocation, it considers that the direction is no longer necessary or
appropriate.
A recapitalisation direction may direct the ADI to issue:
shares, or rights to acquire shares, in the ADI; or
other capital instruments of a kind specified in the direction.
If the recapitalisation direction is a direction to a NOHC/NOHC
subsidiary under subsection 13E(1B), the direction may direct the
NOHC/NOHC subsidiary to do any of the following:
issue:
shares, or rights to acquire shares, in the NOHC/NOHC
subsidiary; or
other capital instruments in the NOHC/NOHC
subsidiary of a kind specified in the direction;
acquire:
shares, or rights to acquire shares, in the ADI mentioned
in subsection 13E(1A); or
other capital instruments in the ADI mentioned in
subsection 13Eof a kind specified in the direction;
acquire:
shares, or rights to acquire shares, in a specified body
corporate covered by subsection; or
other capital instruments in a specified body corporate
covered by subsection, of a kind specified in the
direction.
This subsection covers a body corporate if:
the body corporate is a subsidiary of the NOHC/NOHC
subsidiary; and
the ADI is a subsidiary of the body corporate.
Without limiting the generality of subsections, and, but
subject to subsection, a direction referred to in those
subsections may:
deal with some only of the matters referred to in those
subsections; or
deal with a particular class or particular classes of those
matters; or
make different provision with respect to different matters or
different classes of matters.
A direction for the purposes of paragraphor
subparagraph,ormay specify that
the shares or rights must:
be of a kind specified in the direction; or
have the characteristics specified in the direction.
A direction for the purposes of paragraphor
subparagraph(ii),or(ii):
must not specify a kind of capital instrument unless that kind
of capital instrument is specified in the regulations; and
may specify that the capital instruments must have the
characteristics specified in the direction.
Compliance with a recapitalisation direction
Giving members of the ADI notice of share issue etc.
As soon as practicable after an ADI issues shares, rights to acquire
shares, or other capital instruments, in compliance with a
recapitalisation direction, the ADI must give written notice to the
persons who were members (under section 231 of the Corporations
Act 2001) of the ADI just before the issue.
The notice must:
identify the issue; and
explain the effect of the issue of the shares, rights to acquire
shares, or other capital instruments on the members’
interests.
Issue or acquisition of shares etc. despite other laws etc.
An ADI may issue or acquire shares, rights to acquire shares, or
other capital instruments, in compliance with a recapitalisation
direction despite:
the Corporations Act 2001 (without limiting the scope of
section 70B of this Act); and
the ADI’s constitution; and
any contract or arrangement to which the ADI is a party; and
any listing rules of a financial market in whose official list
the ADI is included.
APRA must obtain expert’s report on the fair value of shares
etc.
APRA must comply with this section before giving a
recapitalisation direction that directs an ADI to issue shares, or
rights to acquire shares, in the ADI, unless APRA is satisfied that
compliance with this section would detrimentally affect:
the depositors with the ADI; or
the stability of the financial system in Australia.
If the recapitalisation direction is a direction to a NOHC/NOHC
subsidiary under subsection 13E(1B), treat the reference in
paragraphto “the depositors with the ADI” as being a
reference to “the depositors with the ADI mentioned in
subsection 13E(1A)”.
APRA must:
obtain a report on the fair value of the shares, or rights to
acquire shares, in the ADI from an expert who is not an
associate of the company under Division 2 of Part 1.2 of the
Corporations Act 2001; and
consider the report.
The report must set out:
the amount that is, in the expert’s opinion, the fair value for
each of those shares or rights; andPart II Provisions relating to the carrying on of banking business
Division 2 Protection of depositors
the reasons for forming the opinion; and
any relationship between the expert and:
the ADI; or
a person who is an associate of the ADI under
Division 2 of Part 1.2 of the Corporations Act 2001;
including any circumstances in which the expert gives the
ADI or person advice, or acts on behalf of the ADI or person,
in the proper performance of the functions attaching to the
expert’s professional capacity or business relationship with
the ADI or person; and
any financial or other interest of the expert that could
reasonably be regarded as being capable of affecting the
expert’s ability to give an unbiased opinion in relation to the
matter being reported on.
If the recapitalisation direction is a direction to a NOHC/NOHC
subsidiary under subsection 13E(1B), treat the references in
paragraphto “the ADI” as being a reference to “the
NOHC/NOHC subsidiary mentioned in subsection 13E(1B)”.
Determination of the fair value of shares by an expert
In determining the fair value for each share in an ADI for the
purposes of paragraph 13H, the expert must:
first, assess the value of the ADI as a whole, in accordance
with the assumptions (if any) notified to the expert by the
Minister for the valuation of the ADI; and
then, allocate that value among the classes of shares in the
ADI that:
have been issued; or
APRA proposes to direct be issued (taking into account
the relative financial risk, and voting and distribution
rights, of the classes); and
then, allocate the value of each class pro rata among the
shares in that class that:
have been issued; or
APRA proposes to direct be issued (without allowing a
premium or applying a discount for particular shares in
that class).
The Minister may give the expert written notice of assumptions for
the valuation of the company.
The Minister may, by further written notice given to the expert,
revoke, but not vary, notice of the assumptions.
A notice given under subsection or is not a legislative
instrument.
Determination of the fair value of rights by an expert
In determining the fair value for each right to acquire shares in an
ADI for the purposes of paragraph 13H, the expert must act
in accordance with the assumptions (if any) notified to the expert
by the Minister for the valuation of that right.
The Minister may give the expert written notice of assumptions for
the valuation of such rights.
The Minister may, by further written notice given to the expert,
revoke, but not vary, notice of the assumptions.
A notice given under subsection or is not a legislative
instrument.
Ascertaining the fair value of other capital instruments
APRA must comply with this section before giving a
recapitalisation direction that directs an ADI to issue capital
instruments other than shares, or rights to acquire shares, in the
ADI.
APRA must comply with any requirements of the regulations
relating to ascertaining the fair value of the capital instruments.
Regulations made for the purposes of this section may specify
different requirements in relation to different kinds of capital
instruments.
Contravention of certain provisions does not affect the validity
of recapitalisation direction etc.
A contravention of:
section 13H or subsection 13J or 13K; or
section 13L or regulations made for the purposes of that
subsection;
does not affect the validity of a recapitalisation direction or
anything done in compliance with the direction.
Recapitalisation direction not grounds for denial of obligations
This section applies if a body corporate is party to a contract,
whether the proper law of the contract is:
Australian law (including the law of a State or Territory); or
law of a foreign country (including the law of part of a
foreign country).
None of the matters mentioned in subsection allows the
contract, or a party to the contract (other than the body corporate),
to do any of the following:
deny any obligation under the contract;
accelerate any debt under the contract;
close out any transaction relating to the contract;
enforce any security under the contract.
The matters are as follows:
the body corporate being subject to a recapitalisation
direction;
if the body corporate is a member of a relevant group of
bodies corporate—another member of the group being
subject to a recapitalisation direction.
Supply of information about issue and revocation of
recapitalisation directions
Power to publish notice of recapitalisation directions in Gazette
APRA may publish in the Gazette notice of a recapitalisation
direction.
The notice must include:
the name of the ADI that is given the direction; and
a summary of the direction.
Requirement to publish notice of revocation of certain
recapitalisation directions in Gazette
If APRA publishes notice of a recapitalisation direction and later
revokes the direction, APRA must publish in the Gazette notice of
that revocation as soon as practicable after the revocation.
Failure to publish notice of the revocation does not affect the
validity of the revocation.
Requirement to provide information about recapitalisation
direction to Minister and Reserve Bank
If the Minister or the Reserve Bank requests APRA to provide
information about:
any recapitalisation directions in respect of a particular ADI;
or
any recapitalisation directions made during a specified period
in respect of any ADIs;
APRA must comply with the request.
Power to inform Minister and Reserve Bank of recapitalisation
direction
APRA may provide any information that APRA considers
appropriate to the Minister or the Reserve Bank about any
recapitalisation directions, or revocations of recapitalisation
directions, in respect of any ADI, at any time.
Requirement to inform Minister and Reserve Bank of revocation of
recapitalisation direction if informed of making of direction
If APRA:
provides the Minister or the Reserve Bank with information
about a recapitalisation direction; and
later revokes the direction;
APRA must notify that person of the revocation of the direction as
soon as practicable after the revocation.
Failure to notify the person does not affect the validity of the
revocation.
Non-compliance with a recapitalisation direction
An ADI commits an offence if:
the ADI does, or refuses or fails to do, an act; and
doing, or refusing or failing to do, the act results in a
contravention of a recapitalisation direction given to the ADI.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
However, subsection does not apply if:
the ADI made reasonable efforts to comply with the
recapitalisation direction; and
the ADI’s contravention is due to circumstances beyond the
ADI’s control.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in
subsection (see subsection 13.3 of the Criminal Code).
If an ADI does, or refuses or fails to do, an act in circumstances
that give rise to the ADI committing an offence against
subsection, the ADI commits an offence against that subsection
in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the ADI committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
An officer of an ADI commits an offence if:
the officer refuses or fails to take reasonable steps to ensure
that the ADI complies with a recapitalisation direction given
to the ADI; and
the officer’s duties include ensuring that the ADI complies
with the direction, or with a class of directions that includes
the direction.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
If an officer of an ADI refuses or fails to take reasonable steps to
ensure that the ADI complies with a recapitalisation direction
given to the ADI in circumstances that give rise to the officer
committing an offence against subsection, the officer commits
an offence against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the officer committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
In this section, officer has the meaning given by section 9 of the
Corporations Act 2001.
Exceptions to Part IV of the Competition and Consumer Act
2010
For the purposes of subsection 51 of the Competition and
Consumer Act 2010, the following things are specified and
specifically authorised:
the acquisition of shares in an ADI as a direct result of:
the issue of the shares in compliance with a
recapitalisation direction given to the ADI; or
the exercise of a right to acquire shares that was issued
in compliance with such a recapitalisation direction;
the acquisition of other capital instruments as a direct result
of the issue of the other capital instruments in compliance
with a recapitalisation direction given to an ADI.
Subdivision B—Provisions dealing with control of a body
corporate’s business by a Banking Act statutory
manager
Banking Act statutory manager’s powers and functions
Banking Act statutory manager’s powers and functions include
powers and functions of board
A Banking Act statutory manager of a body corporate has the
powers and functions of the members of the board of directors of
the body corporate (collectively and individually), including the
board’s powers of delegation.
Note: When a Banking Act statutory manager takes control of the business
of a body corporate, the directors of the body corporate cease to hold
office (see section 15).
Banking Act statutory manager’s power to obtain information
A Banking Act statutory manager of a body corporate may, for the
purposes of this Division, require a person who has, at any time,
been an officer of the body corporate to give the statutory manager
any information relating to the business of the body corporate that
If:
the statutory manager requires. A requirement to give information
may include a requirement to produce books, accounts or
documents.
A person who is or has been an officer of a body corporate
commits an offence if:
there is a Banking Act statutory manager of the body
corporate; and
under subsection, the Banking Act statutory manager
requires the person to give information or to produce books,
accounts or documents; and
the person fails to comply with the requirement.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 12 months.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: Subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine instead of, or in addition to, a term of imprisonment. The
maximum fine a court may impose is worked out as provided in that
subsection.
Note 3: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the maximum fine worked out as mentioned in
Note 2.
An individual is not excused from complying with a requirement
under subsection to give information on the ground that doing
so would tend to incriminate the individual or make the individual
liable to a penalty.
before giving information in compliance with a requirement
under subsection, an individual claims that giving the
information might tend to incriminate the individual or make
the individual liable to a penalty; and
giving the information might in fact tend to incriminate the
individual or make the individual so liable;
the information given in compliance with the requirement is not
admissible in evidence against the individual in a criminal
proceeding or a proceeding for the imposition of a penalty, other
than a proceeding in respect of the falsity of the information.
Subsections and apply to the production of books, accounts
or documents in a corresponding way to the way in which they
apply to the giving of information.
Banking Act statutory manager’s power to sell whole or part of
body corporate’s business
A Banking Act statutory manager may sell or otherwise dispose of
the whole or any part of the body corporate’s business. The sale or
disposal may occur on any terms and conditions that the Banking
Act statutory manager considers appropriate.
Banking Act statutory manager to alter body corporate’s
constitution etc.
A Banking Act statutory manager may, if the body corporate
concerned is registered under the Corporations Act 2001, alter the
body corporate’s constitution, rules or other arrangements for
governance if the alteration:
is necessary or convenient for enabling or facilitating the
performance of the Banking Act statutory manager’s
functions and duties, or the exercise of the Banking Act
statutory manager’s other powers, under this Division in
relation to the body corporate; and
promotes:
the protection of depositors of the relevant ADI
mentioned in subsection 13A(1B); and
financial system stability in Australia.
A Banking Act statutory manager may do an act under
subsection or despite:
the Corporations Act 2001 (without limiting the scope of
section 70B of this Act); and
the body corporate’s constitution; and
14AAA any contract or arrangement to which the body corporate is
party; and
any listing rules of a financial market in whose official list
the body corporate is included.
Interpretation
In this section:
officer, in relation to a body corporate, has the same meaning as in
section 11CG.
Safeguards on exercise of Banking Act statutory manager’s
powers and functions
Despite anything else in this Subdivision, a Banking Act statutory
manager of a body corporate (the body corporate under
management) may not perform a function or exercise a power
under section 14A if:
either or both of subsections and apply; and
the performance of the function or the exercise of the power
is not for the purposes of:
an act of the Banking Act statutory manager under
subsection 14AA; or
Part 3 or 4 of the Financial Sector (Transfer and
Restructure) Act 1999.
This subsection applies if:
the body corporate under management is not an ADI; and
the performance or the exercise would result in:
the provision of services by the body corporate under
management to a related body corporate of the body
corporate under management; or
the provision of services by a related body corporate of
the body corporate under management to the body
corporate under management; or
subject to subsection, the transfer of assets between
the body corporate under management and another body
corporate (otherwise than in the ordinary course of
business); and
the performance or the exercise is not required or permitted
by a binding arrangement that was in existence immediately
before the Banking Act statutory manager started to be in
control of the business of the body corporate under
management; and
the provision or transfer is not for fair value.
This subsection applies if:
the body corporate under management is an authorised
NOHC of an ADI; and
the performance or the exercise requires using funds of the
body corporate or a subsidiary of the body corporate to
increase the level of capital of the ADI to a specified level;
and
the shareholders of the body corporate have not agreed, by
ordinary resolution, to that use of the funds.
Treat the requirement in subparagraphas not being met
if:
the body corporate under management is an authorised
NOHC of an ADI; and
the transfer of assets mentioned in that subparagraph is a
transfer of funds to increase the level of capital of the ADI to
a specified level; and
the shareholders of the body corporate have agreed, by
ordinary resolution, to that use of the funds.
Banking Act statutory manager’s additional powers to
facilitate recapitalisation
Powers
A Banking Act statutory manager of a body corporate that is a
company that has a share capital and is registered under the
Corporations Act 2001 may do one or more of the following acts
on terms determined by the Banking Act statutory manager:
issue shares, or rights to acquire shares, in the company;
cancel shares, or rights to acquire shares, in the company;
reduce the company’s share capital by cancelling any paid-up
share capital that is not represented by available assets;
sell shares, or rights to acquire shares, in the company;
vary or cancel rights or restrictions attached to shares in a
class of shares in the company.
Note: Before doing such an act, the Banking Act statutory manager will
usually need to get and consider a report on the fair value of each
share or right concerned: see section 14AB.
Giving company members notice of exercise of powers
As soon as practicable after doing an act described in
paragraph, , or or subsection, the Banking Act
statutory manager must give written notice to the persons who
were members (under section 231 of the Corporations Act 2001) of
the company just before the act, identifying the act and explaining
its effect on their interests as members.
One of the acts to which subsection relates is the offering of
shares, or rights to acquire shares, in the company for sale under
paragraph.
Exercise of powers despite other laws etc.
A Banking Act statutory manager may do an act under
subsection despite:
the Corporations Act 2001 (without limiting the scope of
section 70B of this Act); and
the company’s constitution; and
any contract or arrangement to which the company is party;
and
any listing rules of a financial market in whose official list
the company is included.
Considering report before acting under section 14AA
Getting and considering report on fair value of shares or rights
Before determining terms for an act under subsection 14AA, the
Banking Act statutory manager must:
obtain a report meeting the requirements in subsection of
this section on the fair value of the shares or rights concerned
from an expert who is not an associate of the Banking Act
statutory manager, or of the company, under Division 2 of
Part 1.2 of the Corporations Act 2001; and
consider the report;
unless APRA determines under subsection that this subsection
does not apply in relation to that act relating to those shares or
rights.
Content of report
The report must set out:
the amount that is, in the expert’s opinion, the fair value for
each share or right concerned; and
the reasons for forming the opinion; and
any relationship between the expert and any of the following
persons:
the Banking Act statutory manager;
a person who is an associate of the Banking Act
statutory manager under Division 2 of Part 1.2 of the
Corporations Act 2001;
the body corporate;
a person who is an associate of the body corporate under
Division 2 of Part 1.2 of the Corporations Act 2001;
including any circumstances in which the expert gives them
advice, or acts on their behalf, in the proper performance of
the functions attaching to the expert’s professional capacity
or business relationship with them; and
any financial or other interest of the expert that could
reasonably be regarded as being capable of affecting the
expert’s ability to give an unbiased opinion in relation to the
matter being reported on.
Determining fair value of shares
In determining for the purposes of paragraphthe amount that
is, in the expert’s opinion, the fair value for each share concerned,
the expert must:
first, assess the value of the company as a whole, in
accordance with the assumptions (if any) notified to the
expert by the Minister for the valuation of the company; and
then allocate that value among the classes of shares in the
company that either have been issued or that the Banking Act
statutory manager proposes to issue (taking into account the
relative financial risk, and voting and distribution rights, of
the classes); and
then allocate the value of each class pro rata among the
shares in that class that either have been issued or that the
Banking Act statutory manager proposes to issue (without
allowing a premium or applying a discount for particular
shares in that class).
Assumptions for valuation of company
The Minister may give the expert written notice of assumptions for
the valuation of the company. The Minister may, by further written
notice given to the expert, revoke, but not vary, notice of the
assumptions. A notice under this subsection is not a legislative
instrument.
Determining fair value of rights
In determining for the purposes of paragraphthe amount that
is, in the expert’s opinion, the fair value for each right concerned,
the expert must act in accordance with the assumptions (if any)
notified to the expert by the Minister for the valuation of the right.
Assumptions for valuation of rights
The Minister may give the expert written notice of assumptions for
the valuation of the rights concerned. The Minister may, by further
written notice given to the expert, revoke, but not vary, notice of
the assumptions. A notice under this subsection is not a legislative
instrument.
Contravention does not invalidate act
A contravention of subsection,,, or does not
affect the validity of anything done under section 14AA.
Exemption from subsection
APRA may determine in writing that subsection does not apply
in relation to an act relating to shares or rights if APRA is satisfied
that delaying the act to enable compliance with that subsection in
relation to the act would detrimentally affect:
depositors with:
if the company is an ADI—the ADI; or
if the company is not an ADI—the relevant ADI
mentioned in subsection 13A(1B); and
financial system stability in Australia.
APRA must:
publish a copy of a determination under subsection in the
Gazette; and
give a copy of a determination under subsection to the
Banking Act statutory manager concerned (unless that
manager is APRA).
A determination made under subsection is not a legislative
instrument.
Act under section 14AA not ground for denial of obligations
This section applies if a body corporate is party to a contract,
whether the proper law of the contract is:
Australian law (including the law of a State or Territory); or
law of a foreign country (including the law of part of a
foreign country).
None of the matters mentioned in subsection allows the
contract, or a party to the contract (other than the body corporate),
to do any of the following:
deny any obligation under the contract;
accelerate any debt under the contract;
close out any transaction relating to the contract;
enforce any security under the contract.
The matters are as follows:
a Banking Act statutory manager of the body corporate doing
an act under subsection 14AA relating to the body
corporate;
if the body corporate is a member of a relevant group of
bodies corporate—a Banking Act statutory manager of
another member of the group doing an act under
subsection 14AA relating to that other member.
APRA may require a person to give information etc. for the
purposes of this Division
APRA may require person to give information etc.
APRA may require a person, by written notice given to the person,
to give APRA information, or documents containing information,
relating to the business of a body corporate that has a Banking Act
statutory manager if:
in a case where the Banking Act statutory manager is APRA:
APRA believes, on reasonable grounds, that the person
has such information or documents; and
APRA requires the information or documents for the
purposes of this Division; and
in a case where the Banking Act statutory manager is not
APRA:
the Banking Act statutory manager requests, in writing,
that APRA require the person to give the information or
documents under this subsection; and
APRA believes, on reasonable grounds, that the person
has such information or documents; and
APRA is satisfied that the Banking Act statutory
manager requires the information or documents for the
purposes of this Division.
The notice:
must specify a period within which the information or
documents must be given to APRA; and
may specify the form and manner in which the information or
documents must be given to APRA.
The period specified under paragraphmust be reasonable in
all the circumstances.
Offence
A person commits an offence if:
APRA requires the person to give APRA information or
documents under subsection; and
the person refuses or fails to give the information or
documents as required.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 12 months or 50 penalty units, or both.
Self-incrimination
A person is not excused from complying with a requirement under
subsection to give information or documents on the ground that
doing so would tend to incriminate the individual or make the
individual liable to a penalty.
However, in the case of an individual:
the information or document given; and
giving the information or document; and
any information, document or thing obtained as a direct or
indirect consequence of giving the information or document;
are not admissible in evidence against the individual in a criminal
proceeding or a proceeding for the imposition of a penalty, other
than a proceeding in respect of the falsity of the information or
document.
This section does not limit section 14A.
Administrator in control—additional powers to recommend
action by APRA
Types of recommendation
An administrator of a body corporate’s business may make any of
the following recommendations to APRA, by instrument in writing
given to APRA:
that APRA make a particular direction under Division 1BA,
subsection 14D or section 29 in respect of the body
corporate;
that APRA apply for the body corporate to be wound up;
if the body corporate is an ADI—that APRA revoke the
ADI’s section 9 authority;
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC—that APRA
revoke the authorised NOHC’s authority under
subsection 11AA.
Effect of recommendation
If an administrator of a body corporate’s business makes a
recommendation under this section, APRA must consider the
recommendation but is not required to act on it.
Banking Act statutory manager’s liabilities and duties
Immunity
A Banking Act statutory manager, or a person acting on behalf of a
Banking Act statutory manager, is not subject to any liability
(whether civil or criminal) in respect of anything done, or omitted
to be done, in the exercise or performance, or the purported
exercise or performance, of powers, functions or duties conferred
or imposed on the Banking Act statutory manager by or under this
Act.
Subsection does not apply to an act or omission in bad faith.
To avoid doubt, a Banking Act statutory manager is not liable
under section 588G, 588GAB or 588GAC of the Corporations Act
2001 in respect of anything done, or omitted to be done, in the
exercise or performance, or the purported exercise or performance,
of powers, functions or duties conferred or imposed on the
Banking Act statutory manager by or under this Act. This
subsection does not limit the scope of subsection.
Signpost to secrecy obligations
Part 6 of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998
prohibits certain disclosures of information received by Banking
Act statutory managers under this Act.
Transaction by Banking Act statutory manager not voidable
under section 588FE of the Corporations Act 2001
A transaction of a body corporate is not voidable under
section 588FE of the Corporations Act 2001 merely because:
the transaction was entered into at a time when a Banking
Act statutory manager was in control of the body corporate’s
business; and
the transaction is:
an uncommercial transaction (within the meaning of
that Act) of the body corporate; or
an unfair preference (within the meaning of that Act)
given by the body corporate to a creditor of the
company; or
an insolvent transaction (within the meaning of that Act)
of the body corporate; or
a creditor-defeating disposition (within the meaning of
that Act) by the body corporate.
Duty to report to APRA on request
A person who is an administrator of a body corporate’s business
must give to APRA a written report showing how the control of the
body corporate’s business is being carried out if APRA requests
that such a report be provided to it. The report must be given to
APRA within a reasonable time after the request.
Duty to report to APRA on termination of appointment
A person who was an administrator of a body corporate’s business
must give to APRA a written report showing how the control of the
body corporate’s business was carried out over the period of the
administrator’s appointment if the administrator’s appointment has
been terminated. The report must be given to APRA within a
reasonable time of the termination.
Duty to follow directions by APRA
APRA may give an administrator of a body corporate’s business a
direction relating to the control of the body corporate’s business,
and may alter such a direction. If a direction (including an altered
direction) is given to an administrator by APRA, the administrator
must:
act in accordance with the direction; or
immediately provide to APRA information relating to the
control of the body corporate’s business and request APRA
to alter the direction.
If an administrator of a body corporate’s business requests APRA
to alter a direction and APRA considers the request then confirms
the direction, the administrator must act in accordance with the
direction.
Administrator in control—additional duties where action
may affect financial system stability in Australia
If an administrator of a body corporate’s business has reasonable
cause to believe that an action that the administrator proposes to
take is an action that is likely to have a detrimental effect on
financial system stability in Australia, the administrator must:
notify APRA as soon as practicable; and
obtain APRA’s written consent before taking the action.
The administrator is not required to comply with subsection if
the administrator is satisfied that it is not reasonably practicable to
do so, having regard to urgency or other similar constraint.
The performance of a function or the exercise of a power by an
administrator is not invalid merely because of a failure by the
administrator to comply with this section.
Administrator in control—additional duties where action may
affect financial system stability in New Zealand
If an administrator of a body corporate’s business has reasonable
cause to believe that an action that the administrator proposes to
take is an action that is likely to have a detrimental effect on
financial system stability in New Zealand, the administrator must:
notify APRA as soon as practicable; and
obtain APRA’s written consent before taking the action.
The administrator is not required to comply with subsection if
the administrator is satisfied that it is not reasonably practicable to
do so, having regard to urgency or other similar constraint.
The performance of a function or the exercise of a power by an
administrator is not invalid merely because of a failure by the
administrator to comply with this section.
If APRA receives a notice under paragraph, it must provide
details of the notice to every prescribed New Zealand authority that
APRA considers to be relevant in the circumstances before
granting written consent to the administrator.
APRA is not required to comply with subsection if APRA is
satisfied that it is not reasonably practicable to do so, having regard
to urgency or other similar constraint.
The performance of a function or the exercise of a power by APRA
is not invalid merely because of a failure by APRA to comply with
this section.
An administrator of a body corporate’s business may consult a
prescribed New Zealand authority about whether an action the
administrator proposes to take is likely to have a detrimental effect
on financial system stability in New Zealand.
Termination of administrator’s appointment
APRA may terminate the appointment of an administrator of a
body corporate’s business and either appoint another person as
administrator of the body corporate’s business or itself take control
of the body corporate’s business if:
the administrator contravenes a requirement of this Division;
or
APRA considers such action necessary to:
facilitate the resolution of the body corporate, a relevant
group of bodies corporate of which the body corporate
is a member, or another member of such a group; or
if the body corporate is an ADI—protect the interests of
depositors of the ADI; or
promote financial system stability in Australia.
The terms and conditions of an administrator’s appointment may
provide for termination in circumstances in addition to those
mentioned in subsection.
If:
APRA is the statutory manager of a body corporate; and
the requirement in paragraphis satisfied;
it may cease to be the statutory manager of the body corporate and
appoint a person as administrator of the body corporate’s business.
This section has effect subject to section 13C.
Effect on directors of Banking Act statutory manager taking
control of a body corporate’s business
The directors of a body corporate cease to hold office when a
Banking Act statutory manager takes control of the body
corporate’s business.
Note: For the definition of director, see subsection.
A director of a body corporate must not be appointed or elected
while a Banking Act statutory manager is in control of the body
corporate’s business unless the appointment is made under
subsection 13C.
If a person who ceased to hold office under subsection, or a
purported director of the body corporate appointed or elected in
contravention of subsection, purports to act in relation to the
body corporate’s business while a Banking Act statutory manager
has control of the body corporate’s business, those acts are invalid
and of no effect.
Subsections, and do not apply in relation to a body
corporate that is a foreign ADI.
Subsection applies if:
subsections, and do not apply in relation to a body
corporate because of subsection; and
a Banking Act statutory manager takes control of the body
corporate’s business; and
a director of the body corporate acts, or purports to act in
relation to the body corporate’s business while the Banking
Act statutory manager has control of the body corporate’s
business.
Those acts are invalid and of no effect to the extent that they relate
to:
the Australian business assets and liabilities of the body
corporate; or
the management of the body corporate, to the extent that the
management relates to the Australian business assets and
liabilities of the body corporate.
For the purposes of this section, director has the same meaning as
it has in the Corporations Act 2001.
Effect on external administrator of Banking Act statutory
manager taking control of a body corporate’s business
The appointment of an external administrator of a body corporate
is terminated when a Banking Act statutory manager takes control
of the body corporate’s business.
An external administrator of a body corporate must not be
appointed while a Banking Act statutory manager is in control of
the body corporate’s business unless APRA approves the
appointment.
If a person who ceased to be the external administrator of a body
corporate under subsection, or a purported external
administrator of the body corporate appointed in contravention of
subsection, purports to act in relation to the body corporate’s
business while a Banking Act statutory manager has control of the
body corporate’s business, those acts are invalid and of no effect.
APRA must inform the external administrator of a body corporate
that a Banking Act statutory manager will take control of the body
corporate’s business as soon as possible after the decision that a
Banking Act statutory manager will take control of the body
corporate’s business is made. However, failure to inform the
external administrator does not affect the operation of this section.
Moratorium—effect of Banking Act statutory management on
court and tribunal proceedings
A person cannot begin or continue a proceeding in a court or
tribunal covered by subsection in respect of a body corporate if
a Banking Act statutory manager is in control of the body
corporate’s business.
Subsection does not apply if:
the court or tribunal grants leave for the proceedings to be
begun or continued on the ground that the person would be
caused hardship if leave were not granted; and
the beginning or continuing of the proceedings is in
accordance with such terms (if any) as the court or tribunal
imposes.
A person intending to apply for leave of the court or tribunal under
paragraphmust give APRA at least 10 days notice of the
intention to apply (or a shorter period, if the court or tribunal
considers that exceptional circumstances make this necessary).
APRA may apply to the court or tribunal to be joined as a party to
the proceedings for leave. If APRA is joined as a party, the court or
tribunal must have regard to APRA’s views in deciding:
whether to grant leave under paragraph; and
if the court or tribunal decides to grant the leave—whether to
impose terms as mentioned in paragraph; and
if the court or tribunal decides to impose such terms—the
nature of those terms.
Subsection also does not apply if:
APRA consents in writing to the proceedings beginning or
continuing; or
the Banking Act statutory manager, after considering
APRA’s views, consents to the proceedings beginning or
continuing.
APRA (or the Banking Act statutory manager) cannot revoke a
consent given for the purposes of subsection.
Neither APRA nor the Banking Act statutory manager is liable to
an action or other proceedings for damages in respect of a refusal
to give consent under subsection.
A proceeding in a court or tribunal is covered by this subsection in
respect of a body corporate if it is any of the following:
a proceeding against the body corporate (including a
cross-claim or third party claim against the body corporate);
a proceeding in relation to property of the body corporate;
a proceeding to enforce any security (including a mortgage or
charge) granted by the body corporate, or by a related body
corporate of the body corporate, over any property that the
body corporate owns, uses, possesses, occupies or in which
the body corporate otherwise has an interest.
Subsection does not cover a proceeding in respect of an offence
or a contravention of a provision of a law for which a pecuniary
penalty (however described) may be imposed.
In this section, a reference to a tribunal includes a reference to the
following:
an industrial tribunal;
an arbitral tribunal.
Moratorium—effect of Banking Act statutory management on
enforcement process regarding property
No enforcement process in relation to property of a body corporate
can be begun or proceeded with if a Banking Act statutory
manager is in control of the body corporate’s business.
Subsection does not apply if:
the Federal Court of Australia grants leave for the process to
be begun or continued on the ground that the person would
be caused hardship if leave were not granted; or
the beginning or continuing of the process is in accordance
with such terms (if any) as the Federal Court imposes.
A person intending to apply for leave of the Federal Court of
Australia under paragraphmust give APRA at least 10 days
notice of the intention to apply (or a shorter period, if the Federal
Court considers that exceptional circumstances make this
necessary).
APRA may apply to the Federal Court of Australia to be joined as
a party to the proceedings for leave. If APRA is joined as a party,
the Federal Court must have regard to APRA’s views in deciding:
whether to grant leave under paragraph; and
if the Federal Court decides to grant the leave—whether to
impose terms as mentioned in paragraph; and
if the Federal Court decides to impose such terms—the
nature of those terms.
Subsection also does not apply if:
APRA consents to the process beginning or continuing; or
the Banking Act statutory manager consents to the process
beginning or continuing.
APRA (or the Banking Act statutory manager) cannot revoke a
consent given for the purposes of subsection.
Neither APRA nor the Banking Act statutory manager is liable to
an action or other proceedings for damages in respect of a refusal
to give consent under subsection.
This section has effect subject to section 31B.
Moratorium—effect of Banking Act statutory management on
disposal of property
A person must not dispose of property if:
the property is owned by another person; and
the other person is a body corporate; and
Note: a Banking Act statutory manager is in control of the body
corporate’s business.
The Federal Court of Australia may grant an injunction under
section 65A in respect of a contravention of this subsection.
Subsection does not apply if:
APRA consents to the disposal; or
the Banking Act statutory manager consents to the disposal.
Neither APRA nor the Banking Act statutory manager is liable to
an action or other proceedings for damages in respect of a refusal
to give consent under subsection.
This section has effect subject to section 31B.
Moratorium—restrictions on exercise of third party property
rights
Section 440B of the Corporations Act 2001 applies during a period
in which a Banking Act statutory manager is in control of a body
corporate’s business in the same way it applies during the
administration of a company.
For the purposes of this section, treat the reference in
paragraph 440Bof the Corporations Act 2001 to the
administrator’s written consent as being a reference to:
the Banking Act statutory manager’s written consent; or
APRA’s written consent.
Neither APRA nor a Banking Act statutory manager is liable to an
action or other proceedings for damages in respect of a refusal to
give consent as mentioned in subsection.
This section applies despite sections 15B, 15BA and 15BB.
This section has effect subject to section 31B.
Moratorium—effect of Banking Act statutory management on
supply of essential services
If:
a Banking Act statutory manager is in control of a body
corporate’s business; and
the Banking Act statutory manager requests, or authorises
someone else to request, a person or authority (the supplier)
to supply an essential service to the body corporate in
Australia; and
the body corporate owes an amount to the supplier in respect
of the supply of the essential service before the day on which
the Banking Act statutory manager took control of the body
corporate’s business;
the supplier must not:
refuse to comply with the request for the reason only that the
amount is owing; or
make it a condition of the supply of the essential service
pursuant to the request that the amount is to be paid.
Note: The Federal Court of Australia may grant an injunction under
section 65A in respect of a contravention of this subsection.
In this section:
essential service has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act
2001.
Moratorium—effect of Banking Act statutory management on
annual general meeting
This section applies to a body corporate that is required under
section 250N or section 601BR of the Corporations Act 2001 to
hold an annual general meeting within a particular period.
Despite section 250N and section 601BR of that Act, if a Banking
Act statutory manager is in control of the body corporate’s
business at the end of that period, the body corporate need not hold
that annual general meeting.
Certain circumstances not grounds for denial of obligations
This section applies if a body corporate is party to a contract,
whether the proper law of the contract is:
Australian law (including the law of a State or Territory); or
law of a foreign country (including the law of part of a
foreign country).
None of the matters mentioned in subsection allow the contract,
or a party to the contract (other than the body corporate), to do any
of the following:
deny any obligations under the contract;
accelerate any debt under the contract;
close out any transaction relating to the contract;
enforce any security under the contract.
This subsection has effect subject to section 31B.
The matters are as follows:
a Banking Act statutory manager being in control, or being
appointed to take control, of the business of the body
corporate;
if the body corporate is a member of a relevant group of
bodies corporate—a Banking Act statutory manager being in
control, or being appointed to take control, of the business of
another member of the group.
Application of other provisions
None of the matters mentioned in subsection affect:
the continued operation of other provisions of this Act or the
operation of the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act
2001 or the Financial Accountability Regime Act 2023 in
relation to a body corporate; or
the obligation of a body corporate to comply with those other
provisions and those Acts.
The matters are as follows:
the appointment of a Banking Act statutory manager of the
body corporate’s business under this Division;
the fact that a Banking Act statutory manager is in control of
the body corporate’s business.
The Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013
does not apply to a body corporate that has a Banking Act statutory
manager.
Costs of statutory management
APRA’s costs (including costs in the nature of remuneration and
expenses) of being in control of a body corporate’s business, or of
having an administrator in control of a body corporate’s business,
are payable from the body corporate’s funds and are a debt due to
APRA.
Despite anything contained in any law relating to the winding-up
of companies, but subject to subsection 13A, debts due to
APRA by a body corporate under subsection have priority in a
winding-up of the body corporate over all other unsecured debts.
Note: Subsection 13A applies if the body corporate is an ADI, and
provides for priorities for the application of the ADI’s assets in
Australia.
APRA must report to Treasurer and publish information about
statutory management
Reports to the Treasurer
If the Treasurer requests APRA to give him or her a written report
concerning the activities of Banking Act statutory managers in
respect of specified bodies corporate or in respect of a specified
period, APRA must give the Treasurer such a written report within
a reasonable time after the Treasurer requests it.
If a Banking Act statutory manager takes control of a body
corporate’s business during a financial year, or if there is an
ultimate termination of control during a financial year, APRA must
give the Treasurer a written report within a reasonable time after
the end of the financial year concerning activities of all Banking
Act statutory managers and each ultimate termination of control
that occurred during that financial year.
Requirement to publish notices in Gazette
If APRA:
takes control of a body corporate’s business; or
appoints an administrator of a body corporate’s business; or
makes an ultimate termination of control in respect of a body
corporate’s business;
APRA must publish notice of that fact in the Gazette. However,
mere failure to publish such a notice does not affect the validity of
the act.
Exceptions to Part IV of the Competition and Consumer Act
2010
For the purposes of subsection 51 of the Competition and
Consumer Act 2010, the following things are specified and
specifically authorised:
the acquisition of assets in a sale or disposal of the whole or
part of the business of a body corporate under this Division
by a Banking Act statutory manager in control of the body
corporate’s business (whether the assets are shares in another
body corporate or other assets);
the acquisition of shares in a body corporate as a direct result
of:
the issue or sale of the shares under this Division by a
Banking Act statutory manager in control of the body
corporate’s business; or
the exercise of a right to acquire shares that was issued
or sold under this Division by a Banking Act statutory
manager in control of the body corporate’s business.
Subdivision C—APRA’s powers to apply for ADI to be wound
up
APRA’s powers to apply for ADI to be wound up
Power to apply for ADI to be wound up
APRA may apply to the Federal Court of Australia for an order
that an ADI be wound up if APRA considers that the ADI is
insolvent and could not be restored to solvency within a reasonable
period.
Note: This section does not apply in relation to a foreign ADI (see
subsection 11E(1B)).
To avoid doubt, subsection applies whether or not an ADI
statutory manager is in control of the ADI’s business.
The application is to be made under section 459P of the
Corporations Act 2001.
The winding up of the ADI is to be conducted in accordance with
the Corporations Act 2001.
If APRA makes an application under subsection, APRA must
inform the Minister of the application as soon as possible.
Note: Once informed, the Minister may choose to apply Subdivision C of
Division 2AA in relation to the ADI so some depositors can receive
payments earlier than they would in the winding up of the ADI.
The main purpose of this Division is to provide for a scheme that:
allows the Minister to make a declaration about an ADI if:
APRA has applied under section 16AAA for the ADI to
be wound up; or
a Banking Act statutory manager is in control of the
ADI’s business; and
entitles account-holders who have certain protected accounts
with a declared ADI to be paid certain amounts to maintain
the account-holders’ liquidity before they would receive
payment in a winding up of the ADI; and
substitutes APRA for those account-holders as a creditor of
the declared ADI to the extent of the entitlements; and
allows APRA to facilitate a transfer of business from the
declared ADI to a receiving body under the Financial Sector
(Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999 by entitling the
receiving body to amounts in respect of the protected
accounts.
APRA’s functions include:
meeting entitlements under Subdivision C; and
preparing, and assisting the Minister to prepare, for the
application of that Subdivision in relation to ADIs; and
meeting APRA’s other obligations under this Division and
the regulations made for the purposes of this Division.
Declaration that Subdivision C applies in relation to ADI
The Minister may declare that Subdivision C applies in relation to
a specified ADI if any of the following requirements are satisfied:
APRA has applied under section 16AAA for the ADI to be
wound up;
a Banking Act statutory manager is in control of the ADI’s
business.
Note: The Minister cannot make a declaration under this subsection in
relation to a foreign ADI (see section 11E).
Declaration to specify amount for meeting entitlements
The declaration must also specify the amount (if any) that is to be
credited to the Financial Claims Scheme Special Account in
connection with the application of Subdivision C in relation to the
declared ADI. If APRA’s application under section 16AAA was
made on or after 12 October 2011, the amount must not be more
than $20,000,000,000.
Declaration to specify amount for administration
The declaration must also specify the amount (if any) that is to be
credited to the APRA Special Account in connection with the
administration of this Division in relation to the declared ADI. The
amount must not be more than $100,000,000.
Amendment of specification of amounts
The Minister may amend a declaration made under subsection,
but only to change the specification of an amount under
subsection or, within the limit set in that subsection.
Declaration cannot be revoked
The Minister cannot revoke a declaration made under
subsection.
Declaration or amendment not disallowable
A declaration made under subsection, or an amendment of the
declaration, is a legislative instrument, but section 42
(disallowance) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply to the
declaration or amendment.
Note: Part 4 of Chapter 3 (sunsetting) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not
apply to the declaration or amendment: see regulations made for the
purposes of paragraph 54of that Act.
Effect of declaration or amendment
The declaration or amendment:
commences from the time it is made, despite
subsection 12 of the Legislation Act 2003; and
has effect according to its terms.
Subsection 12 (retrospective application of legislative
instruments) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply to the
declaration or amendment.
Declaration not to specify ADI by reference to class
Subsection 13 of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply to a
declaration under subsection specifying an ADI.
Note: This ensures that a declaration must specify an ADI individually, and
cannot specify it by reference to a class of ADIs.
Advice and information for decision on making declaration
The Minister may give APRA, ASIC or the Reserve Bank a written
request for advice or information about a matter relevant to making
a decision about making a declaration under section 16AD
(including a matter relating to the affairs of an ADI).
As soon as reasonably practicable after being given the request,
APRA, ASIC or the Reserve Bank must give the Minister the
advice or information about the matter.
In making the decision, the Minister must take into account the
advice and information (if any) that he or she has been given
before making the decision. This does not limit what the Minister
may take into account in making the decision.
Subdivision C—Payment of account-holders with declared ADI
Payment of account-holders with declared ADI
An account-holder who has a protected account with a net credit
balance with a declared ADI at the declaration time is entitled to be
paid by APRA an amount equal to the sum of:
that balance; and
the interest (if any) accrued by, but not credited to, the
account-holder in connection with the protected account
before the declaration time;
increased or decreased in accordance with the regulations to take
account of clearance, within the period prescribed by the
regulations, of transactions connected with the protected account
and entered into before the declaration time.
The interest is payable at:
the rate of interest that is payable according to the terms and
conditions of the protected account; or
if APRA considers that that rate is not certain—the rate of
interest that APRA declares, in writing, is payable.
A declaration under paragraphis not a legislative
instrument.
Joint protected accounts
If the account mentioned in subsection is held jointly by 2 or
more account-holders with the declared ADI, that subsection
entitles each of the account-holders to an equal share of the amount
to which one of those account-holders would be entitled if it alone
had the account with the declared ADI.
Pooled accounts
If:
one person holds the protected account mentioned in
subsection; and
the person is the trustee of 2 or more trusts; and
the net credit balance of the account consists of the trust
funds of 2 or more of those trusts;
subsection entitles the person to be paid, in connection with that
account, the amount worked out under subsection.
Limit on payments to account-holder with declared ADI
Despite section 16AF, an account-holder is not entitled under that
section to be paid, in connection with the protected account or
protected accounts the account-holder has with a particular
declared ADI at a particular time, one or more amounts totalling
more than the limit prescribed by, or worked out under, the
regulations.
The regulations may prescribe, or provide for working out,
different limits for the purposes of subsection relating to
account-holders in different classes.
Despite section 16AF, if:
the account-holder has 2 or more protected accounts with the
declared ADI at that time; and
subsection of this section reduces the total amount to
which the account-holder would otherwise be entitled under
section 16AF in connection with those protected accounts;
APRA may determine in writing, for each of the protected
accounts, the amount (if any) of the entitlement under that section
connected with the protected account (so that the total of the
entitlements equals the limit prescribed by, or worked out under,
the regulations for the purposes of subsection of this section).
Note: Amounts may be determined by reference to a class, or more than one
class, of accounts: see subsection 33of the Acts Interpretation
Act 1901.
In making the determination, the desirability of the account-holder
receiving its entitlements as early as possible is to be taken into
account. This does not limit the matters that may be taken into
account in making a determination.
Payment
Various ways of meeting entitlement
An account-holder’s entitlement under this Subdivision to be paid
an amount may be met:
by paying the amount to the account-holder as a single
amount or in instalments determined by APRA; or
by applying the amount, as a single amount or in instalments
determined by APRA, for the account-holder’s benefit, by
establishing an account with an ADI on behalf of the
account-holder or in another way; or
by paying part of the amount to the account-holder and
applying the rest of the amount for the account-holder’s
benefit.
The regulations may make provision for or in relation to the ways
in which account-holders’ entitlements under this Subdivision to be
paid amounts may be met.
Establishment of account by APRA for meeting entitlement
APRA may establish, on behalf of an account-holder who has an
entitlement under this Subdivision, an account with an ADI (except
a declared ADI) for the purposes of wholly or partly meeting the
entitlement.
Subsection has effect:
whether or not the account-holder consents to the
establishment of the account; and
despite any other law of the Commonwealth relating to the
establishment of such an account.
If an account-holder has an entitlement under this Subdivision
connected with a protected account of a kind prescribed by the
regulations for the purposes of this subsection, APRA must
establish an account of the same kind on behalf of the
account-holder for the purposes of wholly or partly meeting the
entitlement.
Act to meet entitlement is not provision of designated service
An act done by any of the following persons for the purposes of
meeting an account-holder’s entitlement under this Subdivision is
taken, for the purposes of the Anti-Money Laundering and
Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006, not to be the provision of
a designated service by the person:
APRA;
the Reserve Bank.
Note: One effect of subsection is that the person’s act does not make the
person a reporting entity for the purposes of the Anti-Money
Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006.
Exemption from section 32 of Anti-Money Laundering Act
Financing Act 2006 does not apply to a designated service
described in item 1 of the table in subsection 6 of that Act
provided by an ADI as a result of the exercise of APRA’s power
under subsection of this section (whether or not subsection
required APRA to exercise that power).
Giving information about payments in a financial year
This section applies if one or more amounts are paid to, or applied
for the benefit of, one or more account-holders in a financial year
to meet (wholly or partly) the account-holders’ entitlements under
this Subdivision.
Giving each account-holder an annual statement
Within 14 days after the end of the financial year, APRA must give
each of those account-holders a statement about the amounts paid
to, or applied for the benefit of, the account-holder in the financial
year. The statement must:
be in the approved form; and
name the account-holder; and
state the account-holder’s tax file number, if APRA knows it;
and
state the total of the amounts and the total of the amounts (if
any) withheld from them under the Taxation Administration
Act 1953; and
specify the financial year to which the statement relates.
Provisions about statements and reports in approved forms
Division 388 in Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act
1953 applies as if this section were a taxation law for the purposes
of that Act.
Note: That Division sets out rules about approved forms and when they can
be given.
This section does not limit the Taxation Administration Act 1953
Subsection does not limit the operation of the Taxation
Administration Act 1953 in relation to APRA.
Substitution of APRA for account-holder as ADI’s creditor
When an ADI becomes a declared ADI, then, by force of this
subsection, the right of an account-holder who has a protected
account with the ADI to be paid an amount by the ADI in
connection with the account:
is reduced to the extent of the account-holder’s entitlement
under this Subdivision connected with the account; and
to the extent of the reduction, becomes a right of APRA.
APRA may exercise or assign a right it has under paragraph.
Note: Under section 11 of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
Act 1998, APRA’s property is generally held on behalf of the
Commonwealth.
APRA may make transferred liabilities determination where
transfer of business
APRA may make a determination (a transferred liabilities
determination) if:
an ADI is a declared ADI as a result of the Minister having
made a declaration under section 16AD; and
APRA has made, or proposes to make, a determination under
section 25 (compulsory transfer determination) of the
Financial Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999 that
there is to be a total transfer or partial transfer of business
from the declared ADI to a receiving body (within the
meaning of that Act); and
the transfer of business will transfer:
the liabilities of the declared ADI in respect of every
protected account kept by an account-holder with the
ADI; or
the liabilities of the declared ADI in respect of every
protected account kept by an account-holder with the
ADI, to the extent of the amount to which each of those
account-holders is entitled under this Subdivision in
relation to those protected accounts; and
APRA is satisfied that it will be able to identify those
protected accounts; and
APRA has worked out:
APRA’s reasonable estimate of the total amount (the
FCS amount) to which account-holders of those
protected accounts will be entitled (disregarding the
determination) under section 16AF as a result of the
Minister’s declaration mentioned in paragraph ; and
APRA’s reasonable estimate of the total amount (the
administration amount) of the costs that would be
incurred by APRA in relation to the exercise of its
powers and the performance of its functions under this
Division relating to the declared ADI if it did not make
the determination; and
APRA has worked out a total payment amount in accordance
with section 16AIB; and
APRA considers that it is reasonable in the circumstances to
make the determination.
However, APRA cannot make the determination if APRA has
already issued a certificate of transfer under section 33 of the
Financial Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999 stating that
the transfer is to take effect.
The determination must be in writing.
The determination must specify the following:
the declared ADI;
the receiving body;
a description, in general or detailed terms, of all the protected
accounts kept with the declared ADI;
the FCS amount;
the administration amount;
the total payment amount;
the FCS payment amount;
the administration payment amount;
any other information that APRA considers appropriate.
A determination under subsection may be varied, but not
revoked, in accordance with subsection 33 of the Acts
Interpretation Act 1901.
A determination made under subsection is not a legislative
instrument.
Payment amounts under transferred liabilities determination
For the purposes of paragraph 16AIA, APRA may work out:
an amount (the FCS payment amount) that:
is equal to or less than the FCS amount; and
APRA considers to be appropriate; and
an amount (the administration payment amount) that:
is equal to or less than the administration amount; and
APRA considers to be appropriate; and
the amount (the total payment amount) that is the sum of the
FCS payment amount and the administration payment
amount.
In working out the FCS payment amount and the administration
payment amount, APRA must have regard to the following:
the total value of the assets that will be transferred from the
declared ADI to the receiving body in accordance with the
transfer of business;
the total value of the liabilities that will be transferred from
the declared ADI to the receiving body in accordance with
the transfer of business;
any other matter that APRA considers appropriate.
The FCS payment amount or the administration payment amount
may be a nil amount.
Consequences of transferred liabilities determination once
certificate of transfer issued
Application of section
This section applies if:
APRA has made a transferred liabilities determination; and
APRA has issued a certificate of transfer under section 33 of
the Financial Sector (Transfer and Restructure) Act 1999
stating that the transfer is to take effect.
Receiving body entitled to total payment amount
The receiving body is entitled to be paid by APRA an amount
equal to the total payment amount specified in the determination.
Reduction of rights and entitlements of account-holder
An account-holder’s entitlement under this Subdivision to be paid
an amount in respect of a protected account kept with the declared
ADI is reduced to nil.
Declared ADI liable to APRA for total payment amount
The declared ADI is liable to pay to APRA an amount equal to the
sum of the total payment amount specified in the determination.
That liability is due and payable to APRA when the certificate of
transfer comes into force.
Despite paragraph 16AI, APRA does not have the right
mentioned in that paragraph.
Subdivision D—Administration
Requiring assistance
APRA may, by written notice given to any of the following
persons, require the person to give APRA such reasonable
assistance in the performance of its functions, and the exercise of
its powers, under this Division as is specified:
an ADI (whether or not it is a declared ADI);
an administrator appointed under subsection 13A to take
control of an ADI’s business;
a liquidator appointed in connection with the winding up, or
proposed winding up, of an ADI.
Note: APRA may amend or vary the requirement in writing: see
subsection 33 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901. Without limiting subsection, APRA may require a liquidator to
assist APRA in APRA’s function of paying account holders their
entitlements under Subdivision C.
For example, APRA may, by notice issued under subsection,
require the liquidator to do the things specified in the notice,
including:
carrying on the business of the ADI so far as necessary, or
doing any other act or thing, to facilitate APRA’s payment to
account holders in accordance with Subdivision C; or
seeking the re-entry of the ADI into a payment system (as
defined in  of the Payment Systems (Regulation) Act
1998); or
transferring the entitlements of account holders to accounts
held by the account holders in another ADI.
The liquidator must give compliance with a notice issued under
subsection precedence over the other aspects of winding up the
ADI, including any requirements under the Corporations Act 2001.
However, the liquidator is not required to comply with a notice
issued under subsection unless there is sufficient available
property to meet the liquidator’s costs likely to be incurred in
complying with the notice in full, unless APRA indemnifies the
liquidator for those costs.
The liquidator has the powers that are necessary or convenient to
comply with a notice issued under subsection.
The liquidator’s costs of complying with a notice issued under
subsection are expenses properly incurred by a relevant
authority for the purposes of section 556 of the Corporations Act
2001.
A reference in this section to a liquidator’s costs includes:
remuneration, or fees for services, payable to the liquidator
for complying with a notice issued under subsection; and
expenses incurred by the liquidator in complying with a
notice issued under subsection.
Obtaining information relevant to determining and paying
entitlements
APRA may, by written notice given to:
an ADI (whether or not it is a declared ADI); or
an administrator appointed under subsection 13A to take
control of an ADI’s business; or
a liquidator appointed in connection with the winding up, or
proposed winding up, of an ADI; or
any other person;
require the ADI, administrator, liquidator or other person to give a
specified person specified information about an account-holder
relevant to one or more of the actions described in subsection in
a specified way within a reasonable specified time for the person to
use in taking one or more of those actions.
Note: APRA may amend or vary the requirement in writing: see
subsection 33 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901.
The person specified in the requirement must be one of the
following:
APRA;
an APRA member whose duties relate to an action described
in subsection;
an APRA staff member whose duties relate to an action
described in subsection.
The information specified in the requirement may be or include
either or both of the following:
personal information about the account-holder (if he or she is
an individual);
the tax file number (as defined in section 202A of the Income
Tax Assessment Act 1936) of the account-holder.
This does not limit the information that may be specified in the
requirement.
The actions are as follows:
identifying an account-holder who may have an entitlement
under Subdivision C;
determining whether an account-holder has an entitlement
under Subdivision C;
determining the amount of an entitlement under
Subdivision C;
meeting an entitlement under Subdivision C;
establishing an account under section 16AH on behalf of an
account-holder with an entitlement under Subdivision C;
preparing or giving a statement required by section 16AHA;
complying with an obligation under a law relating to
taxation;
making a disclosure required by section 16AT in connection
with the establishment of an account under section 16AH by
APRA on behalf of an account-holder with an entitlement
under Subdivision C;
assessing whether and how information could be provided by
an ADI (or a liquidator of the ADI, if one is appointed) to
enable the actions described in paragraphs , , , ,
,, and to be taken if the ADI were to become a
declared ADI.
Subsection does not apply in relation to a foreign ADI.
This section does not limit section 16AJ.
Enforcing requirement for assistance or information
Requirement made of ADI—civil penalty
An ADI must comply with a requirement made of it under
section 16AJ or subsection 16AK.
Civil penalty: 10,000 penalty units.
Requirement made of ADI—offence
An ADI commits an offence if:
it does, or fails to do, an act; and
the doing of the act, or the failure to do the act, results in a
contravention of a requirement made of the ADI under
section 16AJ or subsection 16AK.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
Note: Section 4K (Continuing and multiple offences) of the Crimes Act 1914
applies to an offence against subsection relating to
subsection 16AK, so an ADI commits an offence for each day it
does not comply with a requirement under that subsection (to give
information within a particular time).
Requirement made of ADI—offence by officer
An officer (as defined in section 9 of the Corporations Act 2001)
of an ADI commits an offence if:
the officer fails to take reasonable steps to ensure that the
ADI complies with a requirement made of it under
section 16AJ or subsection 16AK; and
the officer’s duties include ensuring that the ADI complies
with the requirement.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Subsection does not apply to an officer who is a liquidator of
the ADI.
Note: A defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matter in
subsection: see subsection 13.3 of the Criminal Code.
If an officer of an ADI fails to take reasonable steps to ensure that
the ADI complies with a requirement made of it under
subsection 16AK in circumstances that give rise to the officer
committing an offence against subsection of this section, the
officer commits an offence against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
Note: each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the officer committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
This subsection does not affect the application of section 4K of the
Crimes Act 1914 to other offences against this Act (including
subsection) or the regulations.
Liquidator to comply with requirement made of liquidator
A liquidator must comply with a requirement made of the
liquidator under section 16AJ or subsection 16AK.
Note: Action may be taken under the Corporations Act 2001 against a
liquidator who does not comply with such a requirement.
Requirement made of other person—civil penalty
A person mentioned in paragraph 16AKmust comply with a
requirement made of the person under subsection 16AK.
Civil penalty: 200 penalty units.
Recovery of overpayments
The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the
recovery by APRA of the excess of an amount paid to, or applied
for the benefit of, an account-holder purportedly to meet an
entitlement of the account-holder under Subdivision C over the
account-holder’s entitlement (if any) under that Subdivision.
APRA may delegate functions and powers under this Division
APRA may, by writing under its seal, delegate any or all of
APRA’s functions and powers under this Division to a person.
In performing or exercising functions or powers delegated under
subsection, the delegate must comply with any directions given
by APRA.
This section does not limit section 15 of the Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority Act 1998.
Note: Section 15 of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act
1998:
makes the agreement of the Chair of ASIC a condition for a
delegation to an ASIC member or an ASIC staff member; and
makes the agreement of the Governor of the Reserve Bank a
condition for a delegation to the Governor or Deputy Governor
of the Reserve Bank or to an officer of the Reserve Bank Service.
APRA’s costs of administration
The costs incurred by APRA in relation to the exercise of its
powers and the performance of its functions under this Division
relating to a declared ADI are a debt due by the declared ADI to
APRA.
The debt is admissible to proof against the declared ADI in the
winding up of the ADI.
Subsection does not apply to the amounts of entitlements under
Subdivision C.
Note: APRA may be able to recover those amounts through the rights it
acquires under section 16AI from the account-holder.
Subdivision E—Account-holder’s claims against ADI
remaining after entitlement
When this Subdivision applies
This Subdivision applies if:
a court orders the winding up of an ADI that becomes a
declared ADI before, on or after the order is made; and
on making the order, the court appoints a liquidator of the
ADI; and
an account-holder has an entitlement under Subdivision C
connected with a protected account the account-holder has
with the ADI; and
after the operation of section 16AI of this Act, section 553C
of the Corporations Act 2001 and, if relevant, section 554B
of that Act, there is still a debt payable by the ADI to the
account-holder, or a claim of the account-holder against the
ADI, based on a right to be paid an amount by the ADI in
connection with the protected account.
Liquidator may admit debt or claim without normal proof
The liquidator may admit the debt or claim even if it has not been
proved by the account-holder in accordance with the Corporations
Act 2001 and regulations made under that Act.
However, the liquidator must act in accordance with the
regulations (if any) made for the purposes of this subsection in
deciding whether to admit or reject the debt or claim, and the
extent to which to admit or reject the debt or claim.
Note: This section overrides any requirements imposed on the liquidator by
the Corporations Act 2001 and regulations under that Act in relation
to proof of the debt or claim and a decision whether to admit or reject
the debt or claim: see section 70B of this Act.
How liquidator must pay distributions to account-holder
This section applies if, in the winding up of the ADI, a distribution
attributable to the protected account is payable to the
account-holder and the protected account was of a kind prescribed
by the regulations for the purposes of this subsection.
The liquidator must pay the distribution (so far as it is attributable
to the account) into an account of the same kind that is held by the
account-holder with an ADI (except a declared ADI).
If the account-holder does not hold an account of that kind, the
liquidator must establish, on behalf of the account-holder, an
account of that kind with an ADI (except a declared ADI) for the
payment of the distribution in accordance with subsection.
Subsection empowers the liquidator to establish the account:
whether or not the account-holder consents to the
establishment of the account; and
despite any other law of the Commonwealth relating to the
establishment of such an account.
APRA may disclose relevant personal information to
liquidator
Information about account-holder’s entitlement
APRA may disclose to the liquidator personal information about
the fact that the account-holder has an entitlement under
Subdivision C, and the amount of that entitlement, for the purpose
of enabling the liquidator to decide whether to admit or reject the
debt or claim in whole or in part.
Information relevant to section 16AR
APRA may disclose to the liquidator personal information about
the account-holder for the purpose of enabling the liquidator to
determine whether subsection 16AR or applies and, if it
does, for complying with it.
Subdivision F—Disclosure of information relating to new
accounts
APRA or liquidator to disclose information to ADI
This section applies if, on behalf of an account-holder with an
entitlement under Subdivision C:
APRA establishes an account with an ADI under
section 16AH; or
a liquidator establishes an account with an ADI under
section 16AR.
In the circumstances prescribed by the regulations, whichever of
APRA and the liquidator established the account must disclose to
the ADI the information (if any) that:
is connected with the establishment of the account; and
is prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this
paragraph.
The regulations may prescribe different information in relation to
different circumstances for disclosure.
The information prescribed by the regulations may be personal
information about the account-holder (if he or she is an individual).
This does not limit the information that may be prescribed by the
regulations.
Subdivision G—Exceptions to Part IV of the Competition and
Consumer Act 2010
Exceptions to Part IV of the Competition and Consumer Act
2010
For the purposes of subsection 51 of the Competition and
Consumer Act 2010, the following things are specified and
specifically authorised:
anything done in the exercise of powers, or performance of
functions, under this Division, or regulations made for the
purposes of this Division, except Subdivision E;
anything done to enable or facilitate the exercise of those
powers or performance of those functions;
anything incidental to the exercise of those powers or
performance of those functions.
Division 2A—Auditors of ADIs and authorised NOHCs
and their subsidiaries
Appointed auditor’s functions and duties
This section applies if the prudential standards require an auditor to
be appointed.
The appointed auditor must perform the functions and duties of an
auditor that are set out in the prudential standards.
The appointed auditor must comply with the prudential standards
in performing the functions and duties.
The ADI or authorised NOHC, or subsidiary of an ADI or
authorised NOHC, to whom the prudential standards apply must
make any arrangements that are necessary to enable the appointed
auditor to perform the functions and duties.
Auditors to give information to APRA on request
Duty to give information when required
APRA may, by notice in writing, require a person who is, or has
been, an auditor of:
an ADI; or
an authorised NOHC; or
a subsidiary of an ADI or authorised NOHC; or
if an ADI is a subsidiary of a foreign corporation (whether or
not the ADI is itself a foreign ADI):
another subsidiary (a relevant Australian-incorporated
subsidiary) of the foreign corporation (other than a body
mentioned in paragraph , or ), being a
subsidiary that is incorporated in Australia; or
another subsidiary (a relevant foreign-incorporated
subsidiary) of the foreign corporation (other than a body
mentioned in paragraph , or ), being a
subsidiary that is not incorporated in Australia and
carries on business in Australia;
to provide information, or to produce books, accounts or
documents, to APRA about the ADI, authorised NOHC, subsidiary
of the ADI or authorised NOHC, or relevant
Australian-incorporated subsidiary, or about the Australian
operations of the relevant foreign-incorporated subsidiary, if
APRA considers that the provision of the information, or the
production of the books, accounts or documents, will assist APRA
in performing its functions under this Act or the Financial
Accountability Regime Act 2023.
A person commits an offence if:
under subsection, APRA requires the person to provide
information or to produce books, accounts or documents; and
the person fails to comply with the requirement.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 6 months.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: Subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine instead of, or in addition to, a term of imprisonment. The
maximum fine a court may impose is worked out as provided in that
subsection.
Note 3: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the maximum fine worked out as mentioned in
Note 2.
Requirement for auditors to give information about ADIs
Persons to whom requirements apply
This section applies to a person who is or has been an auditor of a
body corporate that is:
an ADI; or
an authorised NOHC; or
a subsidiary of an ADI or an authorised NOHC; or
if an ADI is a subsidiary of a foreign corporation (whether or
not the ADI is itself a foreign ADI):
another subsidiary (a relevant Australian-incorporated
subsidiary) of the foreign corporation (other than a body
mentioned in paragraph , or ), being a
subsidiary that is incorporated in Australia; or
another subsidiary (a relevant foreign-incorporated
subsidiary) of the foreign corporation (other than a body
mentioned in paragraph , or ), being a
subsidiary that is not incorporated in Australia and
carries on business in Australia.
Matters requiring immediate notice
If the person has reasonable grounds for believing that:
the body corporate is insolvent or there is a significant risk
that the body corporate will become insolvent; or
an existing or proposed state of affairs may materially
prejudice the interests of:
if the body corporate is an ADI or a subsidiary of an
ADI—the depositors of the ADI; or
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC or a
subsidiary of an authorised NOHC—the depositors of
any ADI that is a subsidiary of the authorised NOHC; or
if the body corporate is a relevant
Australian-incorporated subsidiary or a relevant
foreign-incorporated subsidiary of a foreign
corporation—the depositors of any ADI that is a
subsidiary of the foreign corporation;
the person must immediately notify APRA in writing of the matter.
Offences in relation to matters requiring immediate notice
A person commits an offence if the person contravenes
subsection.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 6 months.
A person commits an offence if the person contravenes
subsection. This is an offence of strict liability.
Penalty: 60 penalty units.
Note: For strict liability, see .1 of the Criminal Code.
Defence if matter already notified
Subsections and do not apply to a person in relation to a
matter referred to in subsection if:
the person becomes aware of the matter because the person is
informed of it by a director or senior manager of the body
corporate; and
the director or senior manager informs the person that the
body corporate has notified APRA in writing of the matter;
and
the person has no reason to disbelieve the director or senior
manager.
Note: The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in
subsection. See subsection 13.3 of the Criminal Code.
Matters requiring notice as soon as practicable
If the person has reasonable grounds for believing that:
the body corporate has failed or will fail to comply with:
a provision of this Act, the regulations, the Financial
Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001 or the Financial
Accountability Regime Act 2023; or
if the body corporate is an ADI or authorised NOHC, or
a subsidiary of an ADI or authorised NOHC—a
prudential standard; or
if the body corporate is an ADI or authorised NOHC, or
a subsidiary of an ADI or authorised NOHC—a
direction under Division 1BA of Part II or section 29; or
if the body corporate is an ADI—a condition of the
body corporate’s section 9 authority; or
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC—a
condition of the body corporate’s NOHC authority; and
the failure to comply is or will be significant (see
subsection);
the person must give APRA a written report about the failure as
soon as practicable, and in any event no later than 10 business
days.
For the purposes of paragraph, a failure to comply is or will
be significant if the failure is or will be significant having regard to
any one or more of the following:
the number or frequency of similar failures;
the impact the failure has or will have on the body
corporate’s ability to conduct its business;
the extent to which the failure indicates that the body
corporate’s arrangements to ensure compliance with this Act,
the prudential standards or the regulations might be
inadequate;
the actual or potential financial loss arising or that will arise
from the failure:
if the body corporate is an ADI—to the depositors of the
body corporate; or
to the body corporate;
any matters prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of
this paragraph.
Offences in relation to matters requiring notice as soon as
practicable
A person commits an offence if the person contravenes
subsection.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 6 months.
A person commits an offence if the person contravenes
subsection. This is an offence of strict liability.
Penalty: 60 penalty units.
Note: For strict liability, see .1 of the Criminal Code.
Defence if failure already notified
Subsections and do not apply to a person in relation to a
failure to comply referred to in subsection if:
a director or senior manager of the body corporate informs
the person that the body corporate has informed APRA in
writing of the failure; and
the person has no reason to disbelieve the director or senior
manager.
Note: The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in
subsection. See subsection 13.3 of the Criminal Code.
Offence in relation to subsections and A person commits an offence if:
the person is a director or senior manager of a body corporate
referred to in subsection; and
the person knows that there are reasonable grounds for
believing a thing referred to in subsection or; and
the person informs an auditor of the body corporate that the
body corporate has informed APRA in writing of the thing;
and
the body corporate has not done so.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 12 months.
Auditor may provide information to APRA
A person who is, or has been, an auditor of:
an ADI; or
an authorised NOHC; or
a subsidiary of an ADI or authorised NOHC; or
if an ADI is a subsidiary of a foreign corporation (whether or
not the ADI is itself a foreign ADI):
1Provisions relating to the carrying on of banking business Part II
Auditors of ADIs and authorised NOHCs and their subsidiaries Division 2A
another subsidiary (a relevant Australian-incorporated
subsidiary) of the foreign corporation (other than a body
mentioned in paragraph , or ), being a
subsidiary that is incorporated in Australia; or
another subsidiary (a relevant foreign-incorporated
subsidiary) of the foreign corporation (other than a body
mentioned in paragraph , or ), being a
subsidiary that is not incorporated in Australia and
carries on business in Australia;
may provide information, or produce books, accounts or
documents, to APRA about the ADI, authorised NOHC, subsidiary
of the ADI or authorised NOHC, or relevant
Australian-incorporated subsidiary, or about the Australian
operations of the relevant foreign-incorporated subsidiary, if the
person considers that the provision of the information, or the
production of the books, accounts or documents, to APRA will
assist APRA in performing its functions under this Act, the
Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001 or the Financial
Accountability Regime Act 2023.
Appointed auditor must notify APRA of attempts to unduly
influence etc. the appointed auditor
If an appointed auditor of an ADI or authorised NOHC is aware of
circumstances that amount to:
an attempt by any person to unduly influence, coerce,
manipulate or mislead the appointed auditor in connection
with the performance of the appointed auditor’s functions or
duties; or
an attempt by any person to otherwise interfere with the
performance of the appointed auditor’s functions or duties;
the appointed auditor must notify APRA in writing of those
circumstances as soon as practicable, and in any case within 28
days, after the appointed auditor becomes aware of those
circumstances.
An appointed auditor commits an offence if the appointed auditor
contravenes subsection.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 12 months or 50 penalty units, or both.
Giving false or misleading information to auditor
Offence—person knows the information is false or misleading etc.
A person commits an offence if:
the person is an employee or officer of a body corporate that
is an ADI or authorised NOHC; and
the person gives information, or allows information to be
given, to an auditor of the body corporate; and
the information relates to the affairs of the body corporate;
and
the person knows that the information:
is false or misleading in a material particular; or
is missing something that makes the information
misleading in a material respect.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 5 years or 200 penalty units, or both.
Offence—person fails to ensure the information is not false or
misleading etc.
A person commits an offence if:
the person is an employee or officer of a body corporate that
is an ADI or authorised NOHC; and
the person gives information, or allows information to be
given, to an auditor of the body corporate; and
the information relates to the affairs of the body corporate;
and
the information:
is false or misleading in a material particular; or
is missing something that makes the information
misleading in a material respect; and
the person did not take reasonable steps to ensure that the
information:
was not false or misleading in a material particular; or
was not missing something that makes the information
misleading in a material respect.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years or 100 penalty units, or both.
Determining whether information is false or misleading
If information is given to the appointed auditor in response to a
question asked by the appointed auditor, the information and the
question must be considered together in determining whether the
information is false or misleading.
APRA may remove an auditor of an ADI
This section applies to a person who is an appointed auditor of an
ADI.
APRA may direct (in writing) that an ADI remove the person from
the position if APRA is satisfied that the person:
has failed to perform adequately and properly the functions
and duties of the position as required under this Act, the
prudential standards or the Financial Accountability Regime
Act 2023; or
does not meet one or more of the criteria for fitness and
propriety set out in the prudential standards; or
either:
for a person who is a disqualified person only because
he or she was disqualified under section 21—is
disqualified from being or acting as an auditor of the
ADI; or
otherwise—is a disqualified person.
Before directing an ADI to remove a person, APRA must give
written notice to:
the person; and
the ADI;
giving each of them a reasonable opportunity to make submissions
on the matter.
If a submission is made to APRA in response to the notice, APRA
must have regard to the submission and may discuss any matter
contained in the submission with such persons as it considers
appropriate for the purpose of assessing the truth of the matter.
A notice given under subsection to a person or an ADI must
state that any submissions made in response to the notice may be
discussed by APRA with other persons as mentioned in
subsection.
A direction takes effect on the day specified in it, which must be
not earlier than 7 days after it is made.
If APRA directs an ADI to remove a person, APRA must give a
copy of the direction to the person and to the ADI.
An ADI must comply with a direction under this section.
Note: For enforcement of the direction, see section 11CG.
The power of an ADI to comply with a direction under this section
may be exercised by giving a written notice to the person who is
the subject of the direction.
Subsection does not, by implication, limit any other powers of
an ADI to remove a person.
Part VI applies to a direction given by APRA under this section.
Referring matters to professional associations for auditors
If APRA is of the opinion that an auditor of a relevant body
corporate (see subsection):
has failed, whether within or outside Australia, to perform
adequately and properly his or her duties or functions as an
auditor under:
this Act, the regulations or the prudential standards; or
any other law of the Commonwealth, a State or a
Territory; or
is otherwise not a fit and proper person to be the auditor of a
relevant body corporate;
APRA may refer the details of the matter to either or both of the
following:
the Companies Auditors Disciplinary Board established by
Division 1 of Part 11 of the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission Act 2001;
those members of the professional association of the auditor
whom APRA believes will be involved in considering or
taking any disciplinary or other action concerning the matter
against the auditor.
For the purposes of this section, each of the following is a relevant
body corporate:
an ADI;
an authorised NOHC;
a subsidiary of an ADI or authorised NOHC;
if an ADI is a subsidiary of a foreign corporation (whether or
not the ADI is itself a foreign corporation)—a subsidiary of
that foreign corporation that is incorporated in, or carries on
business in, Australia.
If APRA refers details of a matter under this section, APRA must
also give written notice of the referral (including the nature of the
matter) to the auditor.
APRA may accept a written undertaking given by a person in
connection with a matter in relation to which APRA has a power or
function under this Act.
The person may, with APRA’s consent, vary or withdraw the
undertaking.
If APRA considers that a person who has given an undertaking has
breached any of the terms of the undertaking, APRA may apply to
the Federal Court of Australia for an order under subsection.
If the Federal Court is satisfied that a person who has given an
undertaking has breached any of the terms of the undertaking, the
Court may make any or all of the following orders:
an order directing the person to comply with the undertaking;
an order directing the person to pay to the Commonwealth an
amount up to the amount of any financial benefit that the
person obtained (whether directly or indirectly) and that is
reasonably attributable to the breach;
any order that the Court considers appropriate directing the
person to compensate any other person who has suffered loss
or damage as a result of the breach;
any other order that the Court considers appropriate.
Disqualified persons must not act for ADIs or authorised NOHCs
A person commits an offence if:
the person is a disqualified person; and
the person is or acts as one of the following:
a director or senior manager of an ADI (other than a
foreign ADI);
a senior manager of the Australian operations of a
foreign ADI;
a director or senior manager of an authorised NOHC;
an auditor of an ADI or an authorised NOHC; and
for a person who is a disqualified person only because he or
she was disqualified under section 21—the person is
disqualified from being or acting as that director, senior
manager or auditor (as the case requires).
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years.
A person commits an offence if:
the person is a disqualified person; and
the person is or acts as one of the following:
a director or senior manager of an ADI (other than a
foreign ADI);
a senior manager of the Australian operations of a
foreign ADI;
a director or senior manager of an authorised NOHC;
an auditor of an ADI or an authorised NOHC; and
for a person who is a disqualified person only because he or
she was disqualified under section 21—the person is
disqualified from being or acting as that director, senior
manager or auditor (as the case requires).
Penalty: 60 penalty units.
An offence against subsection is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see .1 of the Criminal Code.
A body corporate commits an offence if:
a person is a disqualified person; and
the person is or acts as one of the following:
if the body corporate is an ADI (other than a foreign
ADI)—a director or senior manager of the body
corporate;
if the body corporate is a foreign ADI—a senior
manager of the Australian operations of the body
corporate;
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC—a
director or senior manager of the body corporate;
if the body corporate is an ADI or an authorised
NOHC—an auditor of the body corporate; and
for a person who is a disqualified person only because he or
she was disqualified under section 21—the person is
disqualified from being or acting as that director, senior
manager or auditor (as the case requires); and
in any case—the body corporate allows the person to be or
act as a director, senior manager or auditor (as the case
requires).
Penalty: 250 penalty units.
A body corporate commits an offence if:
a person is a disqualified person; and
the person is or acts as one of the following:
if the body corporate is an ADI (other than a foreign
ADI)—a director or senior manager of the body
corporate;
if the body corporate is a foreign ADI—a senior
manager of the Australian operations of the body
corporate;
if the body corporate is an authorised NOHC—a
director or senior manager of the body corporate;
if the body corporate is an ADI or an authorised
NOHC—an auditor of the body corporate; and
for a person who is a disqualified person only because he or
she was disqualified under section 21—the person is
disqualified from being or acting as that director, senior
manager or auditor (as the case requires); and
in any case—the body corporate allows the person to be or
act as a director, senior manager or auditor (as the case
requires).
Penalty: 60 penalty units.
An offence against subsection is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see .1 of the Criminal Code.
A failure to comply with this section does not affect the validity of
an appointment or transaction.
Subsections to have no effect until the end of the 3-month
period that begins at the commencement of this section.
Note: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
20 Who is a disqualified person?
A person is a disqualified person if, at any time (whether before or
after the commencement of this section):
the person has been convicted of an offence against or arising
out of:
this Act; or
the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001; or
the Financial Accountability Regime Act 2023; or
the Corporations Act 2001, the Corporations Law that
was previously in force, or any law of a foreign country
that corresponds to that Act or to that Corporations
Law; or
the person has been convicted of an offence against or arising
out of a law in force in Australia, or the law of a foreign
country, where the offence related or relates to dishonest
conduct, or to conduct relating to a company that carries on
business in the financial sector; or
the person has been or becomes bankrupt; or
the person has applied to take the benefit of a law for the
relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors; or
the person has compounded with his or her creditors; or
the Federal Court of Australia has disqualified the person
under section 21; or
the person has been disqualified under the law of a foreign
country from managing, or taking part in the management of,
an entity that carries on the business of banking or insurance
or otherwise deals in financial matters.
Note: The Federal Court of Australia may determine that a person is not a
disqualified person (see section 22).
A reference in subsection to a person who has been convicted
of an offence includes a reference to a person in respect of whom
an order has been made relating to the offence under:
section 19B of the Crimes Act 1914; or
a corresponding provision of a law of a State, a Territory or a
foreign country.
Nothing in this section affects the operation of Part VIIC of the
Crimes Act 1914 (which includes provisions that, in certain
circumstances, relieve persons from the requirement to disclose
spent convictions and require persons aware of such convictions to
disregard them).
Court power of disqualification
On application by APRA, the Federal Court of Australia may, by
order, disqualify a person from being or acting as a person referred
to in subsection, for a period that the Court considers
appropriate, if the Court is satisfied that:
the person is not a fit and proper person to be or act as such a
person; and
the disqualification is justified.
For the purposes of subsection, the Court may disqualify a
person from being or acting as one or more of the following:
a director or senior manager of:
a particular ADI; or
a class of ADIs; or
any ADI;
(other than a particular foreign ADI, a class of foreign ADIs
or any foreign ADI);
a senior manager of the Australian operations of:
a particular foreign ADI; or
a class of foreign ADIs; or
any foreign ADI;
a director or senior manager of:
a particular authorised NOHC; or
a class of authorised NOHCs; or
any authorised NOHC;
an auditor of:
a particular ADI or a particular authorised NOHC; or
a class of ADIs or a class of authorised NOHCs; or
any ADI or any authorised NOHC.
In deciding whether it is satisfied as mentioned in paragraph,
the Court may take into account:
any matters specified in the regulations for the purposes of
this paragraph; and
any criteria for fitness and propriety set out in the prudential
standards; and
any other matters the Court considers relevant.
In deciding whether the disqualification is justified as mentioned in
paragraph, the Court may have regard to:
if the application is for the person to be disqualified from
being or acting as a director or senior manager—the person’s
conduct in relation to the management, business or property
of any corporation; and
if the application is for the person to be disqualified from
being or acting as an auditor—the person’s conduct in
relation to the functions or duties of the person as required
under this Act and the prudential standards; and
in any case—any other matters the Court considers relevant.
As soon as practicable after the Court disqualifies a person under
this section, APRA must cause particulars of the disqualification:
to be given:
if the person is, or is acting as, a person referred to in
subparagraph—to the ADI concerned; or
if the person is, or is acting as, a person referred to in
subparagraph—to the foreign ADI concerned;
or
if the person is, or is acting as, a person referred to in
subparagraph—to the authorised NOHC
concerned; or
if the person is, or is acting as, a person referred to in
subparagraph—to the ADI or authorised
NOHC concerned; and
to be published in the Gazette.
Court power to revoke or vary a disqualification etc.
A disqualified person, or APRA, may apply to the Federal Court of
Australia for:
if the person is a disqualified person only because he or she
was disqualified under section 21—a variation or a
revocation of the order made under that section; or
otherwise—an order that the person is not a disqualified
person.
If the Court revokes an order under paragraphor makes an
order under paragraph, then, despite section 20, the person is
not a disqualified person.
At least 21 days before commencing the proceedings, written
notice of the application must be lodged:
if the disqualified person makes the application—by the
person with APRA; or
if APRA makes the application—by APRA with the
disqualified person.
An order under paragraphmay be expressed to be subject to
exceptions and conditions determined by the Court.
Privilege against exposure to penalty—disqualification under
section 21
Proceedings
In the case of any proceeding under, or arising out of, this Act, a
person is not entitled to refuse or fail to comply with a
requirement:
to answer a question or give information; or
to produce books, accounts or other documents; or
to do any other act;
on the ground that the answer or information, production of the
book or other thing, or doing that other act, as the case may be,
might tend to make the person liable to a penalty by way of a
disqualification under section 21.
Subsection applies whether or not the person is a defendant in,
or a party to, the proceeding or any other proceeding.
Statutory requirements
A person is not entitled to refuse or fail to comply with a
requirement under this Act:
to answer a question or give information; or
to produce books, accounts or other documents; or
to do any other act;
on the ground that the answer or information, production of the
book or other thing, or doing that other act, as the case may be,
might tend to make the person liable to a penalty by way of a
disqualification under section 21.
Admissibility
Subsections 14A, 14AD and 52F do not apply to a
proceeding for the imposition of a penalty by way of a
disqualification under section 21.
Other provisions
Subsections and of this section have effect despite anything
in:
clause 5 of Schedule 2; or
any other provision of this Act; or
the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024.
Definition
In this section:
penalty includes forfeiture.
APRA may remove a director or senior manager of an ADI or
authorised NOHC
This section applies to a person who is:
a director or senior manager of an ADI (other than a foreign
ADI); or
a senior manager of the Australian operations of a foreign
ADI; or
a director or senior manager of an authorised NOHC.
APRA may direct (in writing) that the ADI or authorised NOHC
remove the person from the position if APRA is satisfied that the
person:
either:
for a person who is a disqualified person only because
he or she was disqualified under section 21—is
disqualified from being or acting as a director or senior
manager of the ADI or NOHC; or
otherwise—is a disqualified person; or
does not meet one or more of the criteria for fitness and
propriety set out in the prudential standards.
Before directing an ADI or authorised NOHC to remove a person,
APRA must give written notice to:
the person; and
the ADI or NOHC;
giving each of them a reasonable opportunity to make submissions
on the matter.
If a submission is made to APRA in response to the notice, APRA
must have regard to the submission and may discuss any matter
contained in the submission with such persons as it considers
appropriate for the purpose of assessing the truth of the matter.
A notice given under subsection to a person, an ADI or an
authorised NOHC must state that any submissions made in
response to the notice may be discussed by APRA with other
persons as mentioned in subsection.
A direction takes effect on the day specified in it, which must be
not earlier than 7 days after it is signed.
If APRA directs an ADI or authorised NOHC to remove a person,
APRA must give a copy of the direction to the person and to the
ADI or NOHC.
An ADI or authorised NOHC must comply with a direction under
this section.
Note: For enforcement of the direction, see section 11CG.
The power of an ADI to comply with a direction under this section
may be exercised on behalf of the ADI as set out in the table:
Power to comply with a direction
Item Who may exercise the power How the power may be
exercised
1 The chair of the board of
directors of the ADI
by signing a written notice.
2 A majority of the directors of
the ADI (excluding any
director who is the subject of
the direction)
by jointly signing a written
notice.
The power of an authorised NOHC to comply with a direction
under this section may be exercised on behalf of the NOHC as set
out in the table:
Power to comply with a direction
Item Who may exercise the power How the power may be
exercised
1 The chair of the board of
directors of the NOHC
by signing a written notice.
2 A majority of the directors of
the NOHC (excluding any
director who is the subject of
the direction)
by jointly signing a written
notice.
Subsections and do not, by implication, limit any other
powers of an ADI or authorised NOHC to remove a person.
Part VI applies to a direction given by APRA under this section.
This Division provides for the issue of covered bonds by ADIs.
An ADI issuing covered bonds must provide assets to secure the
covered bonds and related liabilities. These assets are held by a
covered bond special purpose vehicle. Some of the assets held by
the covered bond special purpose vehicle form the cover pool for
the covered bonds.
The ADI must not issue covered bonds if the combined value of
assets in cover pools securing covered bonds issued by the ADI
would exceed 8%, or such other percentage as is prescribed by the
regulations, of the value of the ADI’s assets in Australia.
Application of Division
This Division does not apply in relation to:
a foreign ADI; or
a bond, note or other debenture, liabilities in relation to
which are secured wholly by assets that are not in Australia.
Covered bonds
Covered bonds are bonds, notes or other debentures issued by an
ADI, liabilities to the holders of which, or their representatives,
are:
recoverable from the ADI; and
secured by assets beneficially owned by a covered bond
special purpose vehicle.
Purposes of covered bond special purpose vehicle
The purposes of the covered bond special purpose vehicle must
relate only to the covered bonds.
Cover pool
The cover pool for the covered bonds consists of the assets
beneficially owned by the covered bond special purpose vehicle to
the extent that they secure the liabilities to the holders or
representatives equally or in priority to any other liabilities.
Note 1: The value of the cover pool will usually exceed the value of the
liabilities to the holders or representatives.
Note 2: Assets in cover pools may change from time to time.
Covered bond liabilities
The liabilities to the holders or representatives, and any other
liabilities secured by assets beneficially owned by the covered
bond special purpose vehicle, are covered bond liabilities of the
ADI.
Note: This means that liabilities incurred by the covered bond special
purpose vehicle can be covered bond liabilities of the ADI.
However, a liability to the ADI, other than a liability in relation to
a derivative or the provision of services, secured in priority to any
liability to the holders or representatives is not a covered bond
liability of the ADI.
Issuing ADI
The ADI is the issuing ADI for:
the cover pool; and
the covered bond special purpose vehicle.
Aggregated issuing of covered bonds
Two or more ADIs may enter into an arrangement with another
entity (the aggregating entity) under which the aggregating entity
issues bonds, notes or other debentures secured by covered bonds
issued by each of the ADIs to the aggregating entity.
Other arrangements
The regulations may prescribe other arrangements that may be
entered into by 2 or more ADIs for the purposes of issuing or
dealing with covered bonds.
Restrictions on issuing covered bonds—8% rule
An ADI must not issue a covered bond if the combined value of
assets in cover pools securing covered bonds issued by the ADI
would exceed 8%, or such other percentage as is prescribed by the
regulations, of the value of the ADI’s assets in Australia.
Restrictions on issuing covered bonds—APRA directions
APRA may direct an ADI not to issue a covered bond.
APRA may, by written notice given to the ADI, give the ADI such
a direction if:
APRA has reason to believe that the ADI has contravened:
this Division; or
another provision of this Act, a prudential requirement
regulation or a prudential standard relating to covered
bonds; or
APRA has given the ADI a direction under section 11CA.
A notice under subsection is not a legislative instrument.
The direction may deal with the time by which, or period during
which, it is to be complied with.
The ADI has power to comply with the direction despite anything
in its constitution or any contract or arrangement to which it is a
party.
APRA may, by notice in writing to the ADI, vary the direction if,
at the time of the variation, it considers that the variation is
necessary and appropriate.
The direction has effect until APRA revokes it by notice in writing
to the ADI. APRA may revoke the direction if, at the time of
revocation, it considers that the direction is no longer necessary or
appropriate.
Part VI applies to a decision to give a direction under
subsection.
This section does not limit any other powers of APRA to give
directions.
30 Cover pool monitors
Each cover pool must have a cover pool monitor.
The cover pool monitor must:
be registered as an auditor under Part 9.2 of the Corporations
Act 2001; or
hold an Australian financial services licence under that Act
that covers the provision of financial services as the cover
pool monitor; or
be exempt under that Act from holding an Australian
financial services licence for the provision of financial
services as the cover pool monitor.
However, the cover pool monitor must not be:
the issuing ADI for the cover pool; or
an associated entity (within the meaning of the Corporations
Act 2001) of the issuing ADI.
The functions of the cover pool monitor are as follows:
to assess the keeping, by the issuing ADI or covered bond
special purpose vehicle concerned, of an accurate register of
the assets in the cover pool;
to assess compliance by the issuing ADI with sections 31 and
31A;
to make reports relating to the matters in paragraphs and
available to the issuing ADI (or any substituted entity) for
distribution to the holders of covered bonds or their
representatives;
to provide reports relating to the cover pool to APRA on
written request by APRA;
such functions (if any) as are prescribed by the regulations.
Copies of reports provided under paragraphmust be
provided to the issuing ADI (or any substituted entity) and the
covered bond special purpose vehicle concerned.
The functions covered by paragraphsto must be
performed at least every 6 months.
The functions covered by paragraphsand may be
performed by sampling in accordance with auditing standards
made under the Corporations Act 2001.
Assets that may be in cover pools
An asset in a cover pool must be one of the following:
an at call deposit held with an ADI and convertible into cash
within 2 business days;
a bank accepted bill or certificate of deposit that:
matures within 100 days; and
is eligible for repurchase transactions with the Reserve
Bank; and
was not issued by the ADI that issued the covered bonds
secured by the assets in the cover pool;
a bond, note, debenture or other instrument issued or
guaranteed by the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory;
a loan secured by a mortgage, charge or other security
interest over residential property in Australia;
a loan secured by a mortgage, charge or other security
interest over commercial property in Australia;
a mortgage insurance policy or other asset related to a loan
covered by paragraph or ;
a contractual right relating to the holding or management of
another asset in the cover pool;
a derivative held for one or more of the following purposes:
to protect the value of another asset in the cover pool;
to hedge risks in relation to another asset in the cover
pool;
to hedge risks in relation to liabilities secured by the
assets in the cover pool;
an asset of a kind prescribed by the regulations for the
purposes of this paragraph.
Paragraphis not limited by paragraphsto .
Despite subsection, a cover pool must not contain an asset of a
kind prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this
subsection.
Maintenance of cover pools
The value of assets in a cover pool must be at least 103%, or such
other percentage as is prescribed by the regulations, of the face
value of the covered bonds secured by the assets.
Note: An exception to this rule is set out in subsection.
The value of assets covered by paragraph 31(bank accepted
bills or certificates of deposit) in a cover pool must not exceed 15%
of the face value of the covered bonds secured by the assets.
Note: An exception to this rule is set out in subsection.
For the purposes of subsection, if the sum of:
the outstanding principal amount of a loan secured by a
residential property; and
the outstanding principal amounts of any prior or equal
ranking loans secured by the property;
exceeds 80%, or such other percentage as is prescribed by the
regulations, of the value of the property (as determined by the most
recent valuation of the property), then the value of the loan is
reduced by the amount of the excess.
For the purposes of subsection, if the sum of:
the outstanding principal amount of a loan secured by a
commercial property; and
the outstanding principal amounts of any prior or equal
ranking loans secured by the property;
exceeds 60%, or such other percentage as is prescribed by the
regulations, of the value of the property (as determined by the most
recent valuation of the property), then the value of the loan is
reduced by the amount of the excess.
Exceptions
Subsection does not apply to the extent that compliance would
be inconsistent with a direction given by APRA.
Subsection does not apply to the extent that compliance would
be inconsistent with the need to deal with an asset to satisfy a call
on security in relation to a covered bond.
Protection of certain contractual rights
Directions by APRA
Subsection 11CD(direction not grounds for denial of
obligations) does not prevent the exercise of a contractual right in
relation to an asset that secures liabilities to holders of covered
bonds, or their representatives, if payments under the covered
bonds to the holders or representatives are not made.
Banking Act statutory manager in control
The following provisions do not prevent the exercise of a
contractual right in relation to an asset that secures liabilities to
holders of covered bonds, or their representatives, if payments
under the covered bonds to the holders or representatives are not
made:
section 15BA (moratorium—effect of Banking Act statutory
management on enforcement process regarding property);
section 15BB (moratorium—effect of Banking Act statutory
management on disposal of property);
section 15BC (moratorium—restrictions on exercise of third
party property rights);
section 15C (Banking Act statutory manager being in control
not grounds for denial of obligations).
Powers and obligations of Banking Act statutory manager or
external administrator
To the extent that an asset secures covered bond liabilities of an
ADI, a Banking Act statutory manager or an external administrator
has:
no powers in relation to the asset apart from the contractual
powers of the ADI; and
the contractual obligations of the ADI in relation to the asset.
Prudential standards—treatment of assets and liabilities
This section applies for the purposes of applying:
prudential standards in relation to assets in cover pools
securing covered bonds issued by an ADI; and
any other prudential standard in relation to the ADI.
Treat those assets as assets of the ADI to the extent that the total
value of those assets at the time does not exceed 8%, or such other
percentage as is prescribed by regulations made for the purposes of
section 28, of the ADI’s assets in Australia.
Disregard any liability of the ADI to a covered bond special
purpose vehicle that relates to an asset, or a part of an asset, that is
to be treated as an asset of the ADI under subsection.
Disregard any liability of a covered bond special purpose vehicle to
the ADI that relates to an asset, or a part of an asset, that is to be
treated as an asset of the ADI under subsection.
Prudential standards for covered bonds
A prudential standard may provide for any matter relating to
covered bonds, including the following:
the issuing of covered bonds;
assets in cover pools;
maintenance of cover pools.
Note: Prudential standards are made under section 11AF.
A prudential standard relating to covered bonds may:
require that the following together satisfy particular
requirements in relation to prudential matters:
an ADI;
one or more covered bond special purpose vehicles that
beneficially own assets securing covered bond liabilities
of the ADI; and
impose, in relation to assets, or parts of assets, in cover pools
that are not treated as assets of an ADI under section 31D,
CPart II Provisions relating to the carrying on of banking business
Division 3A Covered bonds
requirements that are different from requirements imposed in
relation to assets, or parts of assets, in cover pools that are
treated as assets of the ADI under that section; and
impose, in relation to a liability of an ADI to a covered bond
special purpose vehicle that is not covered by
subsection 31D, requirements that are different from
requirements imposed in relation to liabilities that are
covered by that subsection; and
impose, in relation to a liability of a covered bond special
purpose vehicle to an ADI that is not covered by
subsection 31D, requirements that are different from
requirements imposed in relation to liabilities that are
covered by that subsection.
This section does not limit the prudential matters in relation to
which APRA may determine standards under section 11AF.
APRA may direct covered bond special purpose vehicles to
return certain assets
APRA may, by written notice given to a covered bond special
purpose vehicle, direct the covered bond special purpose vehicle to
return to its issuing ADI an asset to the extent that, at the time the
direction is given, the asset does not secure covered bond liabilities
of the issuing ADI.
Subsection applies only if APRA may give the issuing ADI a
direction under section 11CA.
A notice under subsection is not a legislative instrument.
The direction may deal with the time by which, or period during
which, it is to be complied with.
The covered bond special purpose vehicle has power to comply
with the direction despite anything in its constitution or any
contract or arrangement to which it is a party.
APRA may, by notice in writing to the covered bond special
purpose vehicle, vary the direction if, at the time of the variation, it
considers that the variation is necessary and appropriate.
The direction has effect until APRA revokes it by notice in writing
to the covered bond special purpose vehicle. APRA may revoke
the direction if, at the time of revocation, it considers that the
direction is no longer necessary or appropriate.
Part VI applies to a decision to give a direction under
subsection.
This section does not limit any other powers of APRA to give
directions.
If a direction is given under subsection, this Act applies in
relation to the direction as if:
the covered bond special purpose vehicle were an ADI; and
the direction were given under section 29.
In this Division:
excess receipts of foreign currency, in relation to an ADI as at a
date, means the amount by which the amount of that ADI’s surplus
foreign currency as at that date exceeds the amount (if any) of its
surplus foreign currency as at the commencement of this Part.
sterling means currency that is legal tender in the United Kingdom.
surplus foreign currency, in relation to an ADI, means the amount
by which the amount of that ADI’s assets outside Australia
attributable to, or acquired by virtue of, its Australian business
exceeds the amount of its liabilities outside Australia attributable
to, or incurred by virtue of, its Australian business.
Transfer of foreign currency to Reserve Bank
The Reserve Bank may, from time to time, by notice in writing,
require each ADI to transfer to the Reserve Bank an amount of
sterling equivalent to such proportion as is specified in the notice
of that ADI’s excess receipts of foreign currency as at the close of
business on a date specified in the notice, not being more than 21
days before the date on which the notice is given.
The proportion specified in a notice under subsection shall be
the same in respect of each ADI.
Where, as at the close of business on a date specified in a notice
under subsection, an ADI has not transferred an amount of
sterling that it has been required to transfer in pursuance of any
previous notice under that subsection, the excess receipts of foreign
currency to which that amount of sterling is equivalent shall not,
for the purpose of calculating the amount of sterling required to be
transferred in pursuance of the first-mentioned notice, be taken into
account as part of the excess receipts of foreign currency of that
ADI.
An ADI commits an offence if:
the ADI receives a notice under subsection; and
the ADI does not comply with the notice within:
7 days after receiving the notice; or
if a longer period for compliance is specified by the
Reserve Bank—the period so specified.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
If an ADI does or fails to do an act in circumstances that give rise
to the ADI committing an offence against subsection, the ADI
commits an offence against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the ADI committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
An ADI shall be deemed to have complied with the requirements
of a notice under subsection if it transfers to the Reserve Bank
an amount of sterling equivalent to the specified proportion of that
ADI’s excess receipts of foreign currency, as shown in that ADI’s
books of account, as at the close of business on the date in
question.
Where an ADI’s assets outside Australia attributable to, or
acquired by virtue of, its Australian business include foreign
currency that is not freely convertible into sterling, the Reserve
Bank shall make such adjustment in the amount of sterling required
to be transferred by that ADI to the Reserve Bank under this
section as appears to the Reserve Bank to be necessary in the
circumstances.
Payment for transferred foreign currency
The Reserve Bank shall pay to an ADI transferring sterling in
compliance with a notice under section 33 such amount in
Australian currency as is agreed upon between the Reserve Bank
and the ADI transferring the sterling or, in default of agreement, as
is determined in an action for compensation by the ADI against the
Reserve Bank.
Sale of foreign currency by Reserve Bank
The Reserve Bank may sell foreign currency to an ADI:
where the Reserve Bank is satisfied that the ADI has
complied with the provisions of this Division and is likely to
suffer a shortage of foreign currency; or
if the Reserve Bank considers that, for any other reason, it is
desirable to do so.
Where the Reserve Bank is satisfied that it is necessary or
expedient to do so in the public interest, the Reserve Bank may
determine the policy in relation to advances to be followed by
ADIs.
An ADI commits an offence if:
the Reserve Bank has made a determination under
subsection of a policy that applies to the ADI; and
the ADI fails to follow the policy.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
Without limiting the generality of subsection, the Reserve Bank
may give directions as to the classes of purposes for which
advances may or may not be made by ADIs.
An ADI commits an offence if:
the Reserve Bank has given a direction under subsection
that applies to the ADI; and
the ADI fails to comply with the directions.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
Nothing in this section:
authorizes the Reserve Bank to make a determination or give
a direction with respect to an advance made, or proposed to
be made, to a particular person; or
affects the validity of a transaction entered into in relation to
an advance or affects the right of an ADI to recover an
advance or enforce the security given in respect of an
advance.
ADI mergers (operation of State and Territory laws) Part IIA
Part IIA—ADI mergers (operation of State and
Territory laws)
Operation of certain State and Territory laws relating to ADI
mergers
Any law of the Commonwealth with which a provision of a law of
a State or Territory referred to in Schedule 1 would, but for this
subsection, be inconsistent has effect subject to that provision, or
shall be deemed to have had effect subject to that provision, as the
case may be, on and from the day that is the prescribed day in
relation to that provision.
Without prejudice to its effect apart from this subsection, each
provision of a law of a State or Territory referred to in Schedule 1
has or shall be deemed to have had, as the case may be, by force of
this subsection, on and from the day that is the prescribed day in
relation to that provision, the effect that it would have, or would
have had, if that law bound the Crown in right of the
Commonwealth, of the Australian Capital Territory and of the
Northern Territory.
If, at any time after the commencement of this Part, a law of a State
or Territory is passed or made for the purpose of, or for the purpose
of making provision consequent upon or in relation to, the merger
of 2 or more ADIs, the Treasurer may, in his or her discretion, by
signed writing published in the Gazette, declare that law to be a
law to which this subsection applies.
Where a declaration is made under subsection in relation to a
law of a State or Territory:
any law of the Commonwealth with which a provision of that
law of a State or Territory would, but for this paragraph, be
inconsistent has effect, subject to that provision, or shall be
deemed to have had effect subject to that provision, as the
Part IIA ADI mergers (operation of State and Territory laws)
case may be, on and from the day that is the prescribed day in
relation to that provision; and
without prejudice to its effect apart from this paragraph, each
provision of that law of a State or Territory has, or shall be
deemed to have had, as the case may be, by force of this
paragraph, on and from the day that is the prescribed day in
relation to that provision, the effect that it would have, or
would have had, if that law bound the Crown in right of the
Commonwealth, of the Australian Capital Territory and of
the Northern Territory.
A reference in this section to the prescribed day in relation to a
provision of a law of a State or Territory is a reference to the day
on which that provision comes or came into operation.
Provisions relating to the non-ADI lenders Part IIB
Main concepts Division 1
Meaning of non-ADI lender and Part IIB provision of finance
A non-ADI lender is a registrable corporation (within the meaning
of the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001) that is
engaged in the Part IIB provision of finance.
Part IIB provision of finance means the provision of finance
(within the meaning of the Financial Sector (Collection of Data)
Act 2001), other than:
the activities mentioned in paragraphs 32, , and
of that Act; and
the provision of finance (within the meaning of that Act)
outside Australia; and
the entry into an arrangement that is a derivative (within the
meaning of Chapter 7 of the Corporations Act 2001).
Part IIB Provisions relating to the non-ADI lenders
Division 2 Non-ADI lender rules
Division 2—Non-ADI lender rules
APRA may make non-ADI lender rules for non-ADI lenders
Subsection applies if:
APRA considers that the Part IIB provision of finance by one
or more non-ADI lenders materially contributes to risks of
instability in the Australian financial system; and
APRA considers that it is necessary, in order to address those
risks, to make rules under subsection.
APRA may, in writing, determine rules for the purpose of
addressing those risks, to be complied with by:
all non-ADI lenders; or
a specified class of non-ADI lenders; or
one or more specified non-ADI lenders.
To avoid doubt, a rule cannot require a non-ADI lender to conduct
its business and activities in a particular way to the extent that the
business and activities are unrelated to the Part IIB provision of
finance.
A rule may impose different requirements to be complied with in
different situations or in respect of different activities.
Without limiting the matters in relation to which APRA may
determine a rule, a rule may require:
each non-ADI lender; or
each non-ADI lender included in a specified class of
non-ADI lenders; or
a specified non-ADI lender; or
each of 2 or more specified non-ADI lenders;
to ensure that its subsidiaries (or particular subsidiaries), or it and
its subsidiaries (or particular subsidiaries), collectively satisfy
particular requirements in relation to the risks mentioned in
subsection.
Provisions relating to the non-ADI lenders Part IIB
Non-ADI lender rules Division 2
A rule may provide for APRA to exercise powers and discretions
under the rule, including (but not limited to) discretions to approve,
impose, adjust or exclude specific requirements in relation to one
or more specified non-ADI lenders.
A rule may provide for a matter by applying, adopting or
incorporating, with or without modification, any matter contained
in an instrument or other writing as in force or existing from time
to time, despite:
section 46AA of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901; and
section 14 of the Legislation Act 2003.
A rule referred to in paragraphhas effect:
from the day on which the rule is made; or
if the rule specifies a later day—from that later day.
Non-ADI lender rules revoked after 2 years
A non-ADI lender rule is revoked at the end of the period of 2
years beginning on the day the rule is made.
If, at any time during that period, APRA considers that the
conditions in subsection 38C still apply in relation to the
non-ADI lender rule, APRA may, by written instrument, extend (or
further extend) the period for a period of 2 years beginning on the
day the instrument is made.
Note: An extension under this subsection does not affect the operation of
Part 4 of Chapter 3 (sunsetting) of the Legislation Act 2003.
Variation and revocation of non-ADI lender rules
APRA may, in writing, vary or revoke a non-ADI lender rule.
An instrument varying or revoking a non-ADI lender rule referred
to in paragraph 38Chas effect:
from the day on which the instrument is made; or
if the instrument specifies a later day—from that later day.
Part IIB Provisions relating to the non-ADI lenders
Division 2 Non-ADI lender rules
Notification and consultation regarding non-ADI lender rules
Notification
If APRA makes or varies a non-ADI lender rule referred to in
paragraph 38Cit must, as soon as practicable, give a copy of
the rule, or of the variation, to the non-ADI lender, or to each
non-ADI lender, to which the rule applies.
If APRA revokes a non-ADI lender rule referred to in
paragraph 38Cit must, as soon as practicable, give notice of
the revocation to the non-ADI lender, or to each non-ADI lender,
to which the rule applied.
If APRA extends the period mentioned in subsection 38D in
relation to a non-ADI lender rule referred to in
paragraph 38Cit must, as soon as practicable, give notice of
the extension to the non-ADI lender, or to each non-ADI lender, to
which the rule applies.
Consultation
Before making a non-ADI lender rule, or varying or revoking a
non-ADI lender rule, APRA must consult with ASIC.
A failure to comply with subsection does not affect the validity
of the action concerned.
Which non-ADI lender rules, etc., are legislative instruments
The following instruments are not legislative instruments:
a non-ADI lender rule referred to in paragraph 38C;
an instrument under section 38E varying or revoking a
non-ADI lender rule referred to in paragraph 38C;
an instrument under subsection 38D extending the period
mentioned in subsection 38D in relation to a non-ADI
lender rule referred to in paragraph 38C.
Provisions relating to the non-ADI lenders Part IIB
Non-ADI lender rules Division 2
Otherwise, an instrument made under section 38C, 38D or 38E is a
legislative instrument.
Review of decisions relating to non-ADI lender rules
Part VI applies to the following decisions:
a decision to make a non-ADI lender rule referred to in
paragraph 38C;
a decision to vary such a rule;
a decision to make an instrument under subsection 38D in
relation to such a rule.
Division not to limit operation of other provisions
Nothing in this Division is intended to limit the operation of any
other provision of this Act or of the Reserve Bank Act 1959.
Part IIB Provisions relating to the non-ADI lenders
Division 3 APRA’s power to issue directions
Division 3—APRA’s power to issue directions
APRA may give directions in certain circumstances
APRA may give a body corporate that is a non-ADI lender a
direction to take specified action to comply with the whole or a
part of a non-ADI lender rule if APRA has reason to believe that:
the body corporate has contravened the non-ADI lender rule;
or
the body corporate is likely to contravene the non-ADI lender
rule.
The direction must:
be given by notice in writing to the body corporate; and
specify the ground referred to in subsection as a result of
which the direction is given.
In deciding whether to give a direction under subsection,
APRA must consider whether the body corporate has taken
reasonable steps in the past to comply with the non-ADI lender
rule.
The direction may deal with the time by which, or period during
which, it is to be complied with.
The body corporate has power to comply with the direction despite
anything in its constitution or any contract or arrangement to which
it is a party.
APRA may, by notice in writing to the body corporate, vary the
direction if, at the time of the variation, it considers that the
variation is necessary and appropriate.
The direction has effect until APRA revokes it by notice in writing
to the body corporate. APRA may revoke the direction if, at the
time of revocation, it considers that the direction is no longer
necessary or appropriate.
Provisions relating to the non-ADI lenders Part IIB
APRA’s power to issue directions Division 3
Part VI applies to a decision to give a direction under
subsection.
Non-compliance with a direction under section 38K
A non-ADI lender commits an offence if:
it does, or fails to do, an act; and
doing, or failing to do, the act results in a contravention of a
direction given to it under section 38K.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If a non-ADI lender does or fails to do an act in circumstances that
give rise to the non-ADI lender committing an offence against
subsection, the non-ADI lender commits an offence against that
subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the non-ADI lender committing the offence
continue (including the day of conviction for any such
offence or any later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
An officer of a non-ADI lender commits an offence if:
the officer fails to take reasonable steps to ensure that the
non-ADI lender complies with a direction given to it under
section 38K; and
the officer’s duties include ensuring that the non-ADI lender
complies with the direction, or with a class of directions that
includes the direction.
Part IIB Provisions relating to the non-ADI lenders
Division 3 APRA’s power to issue directions
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If an officer of a non-ADI lender fails to take reasonable steps to
ensure that the non-ADI lender complies with a direction given to
it under section 38K in circumstances that give rise to the officer
committing an offence against subsection, the officer commits
an offence against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the officer committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
In this section, officer has the meaning given by section 9 of the
Corporations Act 2001.
Foreign exchange, foreign investment etc.
Where the Governor-General considers it expedient to do so for
purposes related to:
foreign exchange or the foreign exchange resources of
Australia;
the protection of the currency or the protection of the public
credit or revenue of Australia; or
foreign investment in Australia, Australian investment
outside Australia, foreign ownership or control of property in
Australia or of Australian property outside Australia or
Australian ownership or control of property outside Australia
or of foreign property in Australia;
the Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with
this Act, in accordance with this section.
The regulations authorized to be made by this section are
regulations (being regulations with respect to matters with respect
to which the Parliament has power to make laws) making provision
for or in relation to:
rates of exchange;
the control or prohibition of the buying, borrowing, selling,
lending or exchanging in Australia of, or other dealing in
Australia with, foreign currency by or on behalf of any
person, and of the buying, borrowing, selling, lending or
exchanging outside Australia of, or other dealing outside
Australia with, foreign currency by or on behalf of a person
who is a resident;
the control or prohibition of any transaction that has the
effect of or involves a purchase, borrowing, sale, loan or
exchange of, or that otherwise relates to, foreign currency,
being a transaction that takes place in whole or in part in
Australia or to which a person who is a resident is a party;
the control or prohibition of the buying, borrowing, selling,
lending or exchanging outside Australia of, or other dealing
outside Australia with, Australian currency by or on behalf of
any person, and of the buying, borrowing, selling, lending or
exchanging in Australia, or other dealing in Australia with,
Australian currency by or on behalf of a person who is not a
resident;
the control or prohibition of any transaction that has the
effect of or involves a purchase, borrowing, sale, loan or
exchange of, or that otherwise relates to, Australian currency,
being a transaction that takes place in whole or in part
outside Australia or to which a person who is not a resident is
a party;
the control or prohibition of the taking or sending out of
Australia, and of the bringing or sending into Australia, of
Australian currency or foreign currency;
requiring any person who is a resident and who has power to
sell, or to procure the sale of, any foreign currency, or any
person (whether a resident or not) who has power to sell in
Australia, or to procure the sale in Australia of, any foreign
currency, to sell, or to procure the sale of, that currency as
prescribed;
requiring any person who is not a resident and who has
power to sell, or to procure the sale of, any Australian
currency, or any person (whether a resident or not) who has
power to sell outside Australia, or to procure the sale outside
Australia of, any Australian currency, to sell, or to procure
the sale of, that currency as prescribed;
the control or prohibition of the taking, sending or transfer of
any securities to a place outside Australia (including the
transfer of securities from a register in Australia to a register
outside Australia), and of the bringing, sending or transfer of
any securities to Australia from a place outside Australia
(including the transfer of securities from a register outside
Australia to a register in Australia);
the control or prohibition of the buying, borrowing, selling,
lending or exchanging of, or other dealing with, property that
is in Australia, or of Australian securities that are outside
Australia, by or on behalf of a person who is not a resident;
the control or prohibition of any transaction that has the
effect of or involves a purchase, borrowing, sale, loan or
exchange of, or that otherwise relates to, property that is in
Australia, or of Australian securities that are outside
Australia, being a transaction to which a person who is not a
resident is a party;
the control or prohibition of the buying, borrowing, selling,
lending or exchanging of, or other dealing with, property that
is outside Australia, or of foreign securities that are in
Australia, by or on behalf of a person who is a resident;
the control or prohibition of any transaction that has the
effect of or involves a purchase, borrowing, sale, loan or
exchange of, or that otherwise relates to, property that is
outside Australia, or of foreign securities that are in
Australia, being a transaction to which a person who is a
resident is a party;
requiring any person who is a resident and by whom moneys
are payable to a person who is not a resident to pay those
moneys within such time as is fixed by or under the
regulations;
the control or prohibition of the importation or exportation of
goods;
the obtaining by the Reserve Bank (or by a person authorized
by the Bank for the purpose) of information, and the
examination by the Bank (or by a person authorized by the
Bank for the purpose) of accounts, books, documents or other
papers, for purposes related to the exercise of the Bank’s
powers or the performance of the Bank’s functions under the
regulations;
prescribing penalties not exceeding a fine of 1,000 penalty
units, or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 5 years, for
offences against the regulations made under this section; and
empowering a court to order the forfeiture, or the disposal in
accordance with the directions of the Reserve Bank, of
Australian currency, foreign currency, goods or other
property in respect of which an offence against the
regulations made under this section has been committed.
Without limiting the generality of the power of the
Governor-General to make regulations under this section, the
regulations may:
for any purpose of the regulations, prohibit the doing of any
act or thing (including the importation or exportation of
goods) specified in the regulations either absolutely or
subject to conditions, being conditions which may prohibit
the doing of the act or thing without the authority of the
Reserve Bank or except in pursuance of a licence granted
under the regulations;
make provision for or in relation to terms and conditions
subject to which such authorities or licences shall or may be
granted, being terms and conditions which may require the
deposit of money with the Reserve Bank; and
make provision for or in relation to the granting of
exemptions, either unconditionally or subject to conditions
determined by the Reserve Bank, from the application of any
provision of the regulations.
Regulations under this section may provide:
that the regulations, or a particular provision of the
regulations specified in the regulations, shall apply, without
modification or with such modifications as are prescribed, to
and in relation to a resident included in a prescribed class of
persons as if the person were not a resident; and
that the regulations, or a particular provision of the
regulations specified in the regulations, shall apply, without
modification or with such modifications as are prescribed, to
and in relation to a person who is not a resident but is
included in a prescribed class of persons, as if the person
were a resident.
Regulations under this section may provide:
that, where a body corporate that is not a resident has a place
of business in Australia, the body corporate shall be deemed,
Foreign exchange, foreign investment etc.
for the purposes of the regulations or a particular provision of
the regulations specified in the regulations, to be a resident in
relation to the affairs of the body corporate conducted by the
body corporate at or through that place of business, including
any business carried on, transactions entered into and acts
and things done by the body corporate at or through that
place of business; and
that, where a body corporate that is a resident has a place of
business outside Australia, the body corporate shall be
deemed, for the purposes of the regulations or a particular
provision of the regulations specified in the regulations, not
to be a resident in relation to the affairs of the body corporate
conducted by the body corporate at or through that place of
business, including any business carried on, transactions
entered into and acts and things done by the body corporate
at or through that place of business.
Regulations under this section may provide that no act or thing
done, or contract or other transaction entered into, is invalid or
unenforceable by reason only that the provisions of the regulations
have not, or a particular provision of the regulations specified in
the regulations has not, been complied with, but regulations so
made shall not be construed as having the effect of preventing a
person from being convicted of an offence against the regulations
by reason of having failed to comply with a provision of the
regulations.
Regulations under this section may provide that, in the exercise of
its powers or the performance of its functions under the
regulations, or under a particular provision of the regulations
specified in the regulations, the Reserve Bank is subject to the
directions of the Treasurer.
In this section:
Australian currency includes notes, coins, postal notes, money
orders, bills of exchange, promissory notes, drafts, letters of credit
and travellers’ cheques payable or expressed in Australian money,
and also includes rights, and instruments of title, to Australian
money.
Australian securities means securities or other property included
in a class of securities or property specified in the regulations as
Australian securities.
foreign currency includes notes, coins, postal notes, money orders,
bills of exchange, promissory notes, drafts, letters of credit and
travellers’ cheques payable or expressed otherwise than in
Australian money, and also includes rights and instruments of title,
to money other than Australian money.
foreign securities means securities or other property included in a
class of securities or property specified in the regulations as foreign
securities.
property includes securities and rights under securities.
resident means:
a person, not being a body corporate, who is ordinarily
resident in Australia; and
a body corporate which is incorporated in Australia.
securities includes shares, stock, bonds, debentures, debenture
stock, treasury bills and notes, and units or sub-units of a unit trust,
and also includes deposit receipts in respect of the deposit of
securities and documents of title to securities.
Nothing in Part IV shall be taken as limiting the power of the
Governor-General to make regulations under this section for or in
relation to the control or prohibition of the importation or
exportation of gold, or otherwise with respect to gold.
A reference in this section to property that is in Australia shall be
read as including a reference to a right, not being property, that is
exercisable in Australia, and a reference in this section to property
that is outside Australia shall be read as including a reference to a
right, not being property, that is not exercisable in Australia.
Foreign exchange, foreign investment etc.
Nothing in subsection shall be taken to affect, by implication or
otherwise, the interpretation or operation of regulations made
under this section.
Regulations made under section 39 shall, except where the contrary
intention appears, apply both within and without Australia.
A provision of the Judiciary Act 1903 by which a court of a State is
invested with jurisdiction with respect to offences against the laws
of the Commonwealth has effect, in relation to offences against the
regulations made under section 39 of this Act not committed within
any State, as if that jurisdiction were so invested without limitation
as to locality.
Subject to the Constitution, jurisdiction is conferred on the several
courts of a Territory, within the limits of their several jurisdictions
other than limits as to locality, with respect to offences against the
regulations made under section 39 not committed within a State or
within another Territory.
The trial on indictment of an offence against the regulations made
under section 39 not committed within a State may be held by a
court of competent jurisdiction at any place where the court may
sit.
This Part shall not be in operation except as provided by this
section.
Where the Governor-General is satisfied that it is expedient so to
do, for the protection of the currency or of the public credit of the
Commonwealth, the Governor-General may, by Proclamation,
declare that this Part, or such of the provisions of this Part as are
specified in the Proclamation, shall come into operation, and this
Part, or the provisions so specified, shall thereupon come into
operation.
Where the Governor-General is satisfied that it is no longer
expedient, for the protection of the currency or of the public credit
of the Commonwealth, that this Part, or any of the provisions of
this Part, should remain in operation, the Governor-General may,
by Proclamation, declare that this Part, or such of the provisions of
this Part as are specified in the Proclamation, shall cease to be in
operation, and thereupon this Part, or the provisions so specified,
shall cease to be in operation.
Transfer of gold out of Australia
A person shall not, except with the consent in writing of the
Reserve Bank, take or send any gold out of Australia.
A person commits an offence if:
the person contravenes subsection; and
there is no instrument in force under section 48 exempting
the person from the application of this subsection.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
Delivery of gold
Subject to this Part, a person who has any gold in the person’s
possession or under the person’s control, not being:
gold coins the total value of the gold content of which does
not exceed the prescribed amount; or
gold lawfully in the possession of that person for the purpose
of being worked or used by that person in connexion with the
person’s profession or trade;
shall deliver the gold to the Reserve Bank, or as prescribed, within
one month after the gold comes into the person’s possession or
under the person’s control or, if the gold is in the person’s
possession or under the person’s control on any date on which this
Part comes into operation, within one month after that date.
A person commits an offence if:
the person fails to comply with subsection; and
there is no instrument in force under section 48 exempting
the person from the application of this subsection.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
Where a person who has gold lawfully in the person’s possession
for the purpose of being worked or used by the person in
connexion with the person’s profession or trade ceases to have that
purpose in respect of that gold, the person shall deliver the gold to
the Reserve Bank, or as prescribed, within one month after the
person has ceased to have that purpose in respect of that gold.
A person commits an offence if:
the person fails to comply with subsection; and
there is no instrument in force under section 48 exempting
the person from the application of this subsection.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
Vesting of gold delivered
All gold delivered in pursuance of section 42 shall thereupon vest
in the Reserve Bank absolutely, free from any mortgage, charge,
lien, trust or other interest in or affecting the gold, and the Reserve
Bank shall pay for the gold, to the person delivering the gold, on
behalf of all persons having any interest in the gold, an amount
determined in accordance with section 44 and the Reserve Bank
shall not be under any liability to any other person claiming any
interest in the gold.
Payment for gold
The amount to be paid for any gold delivered in pursuance of
section 42 shall be an amount determined in accordance with such
price as is fixed and published by the Reserve Bank or, at the
option of the person delivering the gold, such amount as is
determined in an action for compensation against the Reserve
Bank.
Subject to this Part:
a person shall not sell or otherwise dispose of gold to a
person other than the Reserve Bank or a person authorized in
writing by the Reserve Bank to purchase gold; and
a person, other than the Reserve Bank or a person so
authorized, shall not buy or otherwise obtain gold from any
person.
A person commits an offence if:
the person fails to comply with subsection; and
there is no instrument in force under section 48 exempting
the person from the application of this subsection.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
A person may buy gold from the Reserve Bank or from a person
authorized in writing by the Reserve Bank to sell gold, and the
Reserve Bank or a person so authorized may sell gold to a person,
for the purpose of its being worked or used by the purchaser in
connexion with the person’s profession or trade.
A person authorized by the Reserve Bank under this section shall
comply with such directions relating to gold as are given to the
person by the Reserve Bank.
A person commits an offence if:
the person fails to comply with subsection; and
there is no instrument in force under section 48 exempting
the person from the application of this subsection.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
Limitation on working of gold
A person shall not work or use in manufacture any gold, not being
gold lawfully in the person’s possession for the purpose of being
worked or used by the person in connexion with the person’s
profession or trade.
A person commits an offence if:
the person fails to comply with subsection; and
there is no instrument in force under section 48 exempting
the person from the application of subsection.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
Application of Part
This Part does not apply to wrought gold, not being wrought gold
worked or manufactured in contravention of this Part.
In this section, wrought gold means gold and gold alloys which on
view have apparently been worked or manufactured for
professional or trade purposes and includes the waste products
arising from the working or manufacturing of gold and gold alloys
for professional or trade purposes.
Exemptions
The Reserve Bank may, by instrument in writing, and either wholly
or to the extent specified in the instrument, exempt a person from
the application of the whole or any of the provisions of this Part
and, so long as the exemption continues, that person is exempt
accordingly.
The Reserve Bank may, with the approval of the Treasurer, make
regulations:
making provision for or in relation to the control of rates of
interest payable to or by ADIs, or to or by other persons in
the course of any banking business carried on by them;
making provision for or in relation to the control of rates of
discount chargeable by ADIs, or by other persons in the
course of any banking business carried on by them;
providing that interest shall not be payable in respect of an
amount deposited with an ADI, or with another person in the
course of banking business carried on by the person, and
repayable on demand or after the end of a period specified in
the regulations; and
prescribing penalties, for offences against the regulations, not
exceeding:
if the offender is a natural person—a fine of $5,000; or
if the offender is a body corporate—a fine of $25,000.
Reconsideration and Review of decisions Part VI
Part VI—Reconsideration and Review of decisions
Definitions
In this Part:
decision has the same meaning as in the Administrative Review
Tribunal Act 2024.
reviewable decision of APRA means a decision of APRA to which,
under this Act, this Part applies.
Reconsideration of decisions
A person affected by a reviewable decision of APRA who is
dissatisfied with the decision may, by notice in writing given to
APRA, within the period of 21 days after the day on which the
decision first comes to the notice of the person, or within such
further period as APRA allows, request APRA to reconsider the
decision.
The request must set out the reasons for making the request.
Upon receiving the request, APRA must reconsider the decision
and may, subject to subsection, confirm or revoke the decision
or vary the decision in such manner as APRA thinks fit.
If APRA does not confirm, revoke or vary a decision before the
end of the period of 21 days after the day on which APRA received
the request under subsection to reconsider the decision, APRA
is taken, at the end of that period, to have confirmed the decision
under subsection.
If APRA confirms, revokes or varies a decision before the end of
the period referred to in subsection, APRA must, by notice
served on the person who made the request:
tell the person of the result of APRA’s reconsideration of the
decision; and
CPart VI Reconsideration and Review of decisions
set out the findings on material questions of fact; and
refer to the evidence or other material on which those
findings were based; and
give APRA’s reasons for confirming, revoking or varying the
decision, as the case may be.
When APRA serves on a person a notice containing information of
a kind mentioned in paragraphor , APRA may include in
the notice conditions to be complied with in relation to the notice
or any information disclosed in the notice.
A person commits an offence if the person fails to comply with a
condition imposed under subsection.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years.
Strict liability applies to the physical element of the offence in
subsection that the condition is imposed under subsection.
Note: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Review of decisions
Applications may be made to the Administrative Review Tribunal
for review of decisions of APRA that have been confirmed or
varied under subsection 51B.
If a decision is taken, because of the operation of
subsection 51B, to be confirmed, then (despite section 18 of the
Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024) an application for
review of the decision must be made within the period:
beginning on the day on which the decision is taken to be
confirmed; and
ending 28 days after the day on which the decision is taken to
be confirmed.
If a person makes a request under subsection 51B in respect of a
reviewable decision of APRA, section 32 of the Administrative
Review Tribunal Act 2024 applies as if the making of the request
Reconsideration and Review of decisions Part VI
were the making of an application to the Administrative Review
Tribunal for a review of that decision.
An order must not be made under subsection 32 of the
Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024 in respect of a
reviewable decision except by the Administrative Review Tribunal.
Statements to accompany notification of decisions
If a reviewable decision of APRA is made and notice in writing of
the decision is given to a person affected by the decision, the notice
is to include a statement to the effect that:
the person may, if dissatisfied with the decision, seek a
reconsideration of the decision by APRA in accordance with
subsection 51B; and
a person whose interests are affected by the decision may,
subject to the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024, if
dissatisfied with a decision made by APRA upon that
reconsideration confirming or varying the first-mentioned
decision, apply to the Administrative Review Tribunal for a
review of the decision so confirmed or varied.
A notice given to a person under subsection may impose
conditions relating to the disclosure of any information setting out
reasons for the decision that is contained in, or in a document
accompanying, the notice.
A person commits an offence if the person fails to comply with a
condition imposed under subsection.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years.
Note: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
If APRA confirms or varies a decision under subsection 51B
and gives to a person notice in writing of the confirmation or
variation of the decision, the notice is to include a statement to the
effect that a person whose interests are affected by the decision
may, subject to the Administrative Review Tribunal Act 2024, if
Part VI Reconsideration and Review of decisions
dissatisfied with the decision so confirmed or varied, apply to the
Administrative Review Tribunal for review of the decision.
Any failure to comply with the requirements of subsection or
in relation to a decision does not affect the validity of the
decision.
Protections in relation to information Part VIA
Part VIA—Protections in relation to information
Note: For protections for whistleblowers, see Part 9.4AAA of the Corporations Act 2001.
Self-incrimination
A person is not excused from complying with a requirement under
this Act or the Financial Sector (Collection of Data) Act 2001 to
give information, produce a book, account or document or sign a
record on the ground that doing so would tend to incriminate the
person or make the person liable to a penalty.
However, if the person is an individual, the information given, the
record signed or the book, account or document produced by the
individual in compliance with the requirement is not admissible in
evidence against the individual in criminal proceedings or in
proceedings for the imposition of a penalty, other than proceedings
in respect of the falsity of the information, if:
before complying with the requirement, the individual claims
that giving the information, signing the record or producing
the book, account or document might tend to incriminate the
individual or make the individual liable to a penalty; and
giving the information, signing the record or producing the
book, account or document might in fact tend to incriminate
the individual or make the individual liable to a penalty.
Financial records must be kept in Australia etc.
If an ADI is required, under section 286 of the Corporations Act
2001, to keep financial records (within the meaning of that Act),
the ADI must keep the records:
in the English language, or in a form in which the records are
readily accessible and readily convertible into writing in the
English language; and
either:
in Australia; or
if APRA gives written approval and the ADI meets the
conditions (if any) specified in the approval—in another
country specified in the approval.
The approval may be given subject to specified conditions.
Notification of address where financial records are kept
An ADI must notify APRA, in the approved form, of the address
where the ADI’s financial records are kept:
if, immediately before the commencement of this section, the
ADI has a section 9 authority—within 28 days after that
commencement; or
otherwise—within 28 days after the ADI is granted a
section 9 authority.
If:
an ADI has notified APRA of the address where the ADI’s
financial records are kept; and
the ADI moves the financial records to a new address;
the ADI must notify APRA, in the approved form, of the new
address where the financial records are kept.
The notification must be given within 28 days after the day on
which the financial records are moved to the new address.
Offence
An ADI commits an offence if the ADI contravenes subsection.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Merits review
Part VI applies to the following decisions:
a refusal to give an approval under paragraph;
a decision to give the approval subject to conditions.
APRA may conduct investigations
APRA may appoint a person to investigate and report on prudential
matters in relation to:
a body corporate that is:
an ADI; or
an authorised NOHC; or
a subsidiary of an ADI or of an authorised NOHC; or
if a body corporate that is an ADI is a subsidiary of a foreign
corporation (whether or not the ADI is itself a foreign ADI):
another subsidiary of the foreign corporation (other than
a body mentioned in paragraph , being a subsidiary
that is incorporated in Australia; or
the Australian operations of another subsidiary of the
foreign corporation (other than a body mentioned in
paragraph , being a subsidiary that is not incorporated
in Australia and carries on business in Australia;
if it is satisfied that such a report is necessary. The appointment
must be in writing and must specify the prudential matters that are
to be the subject of the investigation and report.
If APRA has appointed a person under this section to investigate
and report on prudential matters in relation to a body corporate, the
body corporate must give the person access to its books, accounts
and documents and must give the person such information and
facilities as the person requires to conduct the investigation and
produce the report.
A body corporate commits an offence if:
under subsection, APRA has appointed a person to
investigate and report on prudential matters in relation to the
body corporate; and
the body corporate:
does not give the person access to its books, accounts
and documents; or
fails to comply with a requirement made under
subsection for the provision of information or
facilities.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
If a body corporate does or fails to do an act in circumstances that
give rise to the body corporate committing an offence against
subsection, the body corporate commits an offence against that
subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the body corporate committing the offence
continue (including the day of conviction for any such
offence or any later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
Nothing in this section is intended to limit the operation of any
other provision of this Act.
To avoid doubt, this section applies to a body corporate that is, or
becomes, a Chapter 5 body corporate (within the meaning of the
Corporations Act 2001) in the same way as this section applies to
any other body corporate.
Part VIII Powers of APRA
Division 1 Investigations
Investigator may require production of books etc.
If an investigator reasonably believes that a person has custody or
control of any books, accounts or documents relevant to the
investigator’s investigation, the investigator may, by written notice
given to the person, require the person to produce any or all of the
books, accounts or documents to the investigator.
A person commits an offence if he or she refuses or fails to comply
with a requirement under this section.
Penalty: 30 penalty units.
Concealing books, accounts or documents relevant to
investigation
A person commits an offence if:
the person knows that an investigator is investigating, or is
about to investigate, a matter; and
the person:
conceals, destroys, mutilates or alters a book, account or
document relating to the matter; or
if a book, account or document relating to the matter is
in a particular State or Territory—takes or sends the
book, account or document out of that State or Territory
or out of Australia; and
the person intended that the investigation or proposed
investigation would be delayed or obstructed as a result of
that conduct.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 2 years.
Powers of APRA Part VIII
Examinations Division 2
Division 2—Examinations
Notice requiring appearance for examination
If an investigator reasonably believes or suspects that a person (the
examinee) can give information relevant to the investigator’s
investigation, the investigator may, by written notice given to the
examinee, require the examinee:
to give the investigator all reasonable assistance in
connection with the investigation; and
Note: to appear before the investigator for examination.
Failure to comply with a requirement made under this subsection is an
offence (see section 61G).
Conduct of examinations
The investigator may examine the examinee on oath or affirmation
and may, for that purpose:
require the examinee to either take an oath or make an
affirmation; and
Note: administer an oath or affirmation to the examinee.
Failure to comply with a requirement made under this subsection is an
offence (see section 61G).
The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by the examinee for
the purposes of the examination is an oath or affirmation that the
statements that the examinee will make will be true.
The investigator may require the examinee to answer a question
that is put to the examinee at the examination and is relevant to a
matter that the investigator is investigating, or is to investigate.
Note: Failure to comply with a requirement made under this subsection is an
offence (see section 61G).
The examiner may make an audio, or audio-visual, recording of all
or any part of the examination.
Part VIII Powers of APRA
Division 2 Examinations
Who may be present at examinations
The examination must take place in private.
The following people may be present at the examination:
the investigator;
the examinee;
the examinee’s lawyer;
an APRA staff member approved by APRA to be present;
a person directed by the investigator to be present.
A person commits an offence if the person:
is present at an examination; and
is not a person mentioned in subsection.
Penalty: 30 penalty units.
The examinee’s lawyer may, at such times during the examination
as the investigator determines, address the investigator and
examine the examinee about matters about which the investigator
has examined the examinee.
The investigator may require a person to stop addressing the
investigator or examining the examinee if, in the investigator’s
opinion, the person is trying to obstruct the examination by
exercising rights under subsection.
Note: Failure to comply with a requirement made under this subsection is an
offence (see section 61G).
Record of examination
Written record of statements
The investigator must cause a written record (including a transcript
of an audio, or audio-visual, recording) to be made of statements
made at the examination.
Powers of APRA Part VIII
Examinations Division 2
The investigator may require the examinee to read the written
record, or to have it read to him or her, and may require him or her
to sign it.
Note: Failure to comply with a requirement made under this subsection is an
offence (see section 61G).
Copies of record
The investigator must give a copy of a written record to the
examinee, without charge, but subject to such conditions (if any) as
the investigator imposes.
Use of copies
If the investigator gives a copy of a written record to a person
under subsection subject to conditions, the person, or any other
person who has possession, custody or control of the copy or a
copy of it, must comply with the conditions.
Penalty: Imprisonment for 6 months.
Offences
A person commits an offence if he or she refuses or fails to comply
with a requirement under this Division.
Penalty: 30 penalty units.
Part VIII Powers of APRA
Division 3 Evidentiary use of certain material
Division 3—Evidentiary use of certain material
Statements made at an examination—proceedings against
examinee
Admissibility of statements made at examination
Subject to this section, a statement that a person makes at an
examination of the person is admissible in evidence against the
person in a proceeding.
Self-incrimination exception
The statement is not admissible if the statement is not admissible in
evidence against the person under section 52F.
Irrelevant statement exception
The statement is not admissible if it is not relevant to the
proceeding and the person objects to the admission of evidence of
the statement.
Related statement exception
The statement (the subject statement) is not admissible if:
it is qualified or explained by some other statement made at
the examination; and
evidence of the other statement is not tendered in the
proceeding; and
the person objects to the admission of evidence of the subject
statement.
Legal professional privilege exception
The statement is not admissible if:
it discloses matter in respect of which the person could claim
legal professional privilege in the proceeding if
subsection did not apply in relation to the statement; and
Powers of APRA Part VIII
Evidentiary use of certain material Division 3
the person objects to the admission of evidence of the
statement.
Joint proceedings
Subsection applies in relation to a proceeding against a person
even if it is heard together with a proceeding against another
person.
Record is prima facie evidence
If a written record of an examination of a person is signed by the
person under subsection 61F, or is authenticated as mentioned in
subsection 290 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision)
Act 1993, the record is, in a proceeding, prima facie evidence of
the statements it records.
Admissibility of other evidence
This Division does not limit or affect the admissibility in the
proceedings of other evidence of statements made at the
examination.
Statements made at an examination—other proceedings
Admissibility of absent witness evidence
If direct evidence by a person (the absent witness) of a matter
would be admissible in a proceeding, a statement that the absent
witness made at an examination of the absent witness and that
tends to establish that matter is admissible in the proceedings as
evidence of that matter in accordance with subsection.
Requirement for admissibility
The statement is admissible:
if it appears to the court or tribunal that:
the absent witness is dead or is unfit, because of
physical or mental incapacity, to attend as a witness;
Part VIII Powers of APRA
Division 3 Evidentiary use of certain material
the absent witness is outside the State or Territory in
which the proceeding is being heard and it is not
reasonably practicable to secure his or her attendance;
or
all reasonable steps have been taken to find the absent
witness but he or she cannot be found; or
if it does not so appear to the court or tribunal—unless
another party to the proceeding requires the party tendering
evidence of the statement to call the absent witness as a
witness in the proceeding and the tendering party does not so
call the absent witness.
Weight of evidence under section 61J
If evidence of a statement made by a person at an examination of
the person is admitted under section 61J in a proceeding, in
deciding how much weight (if any) to give to the statement as
evidence of a matter, regard is to be had to:
the length of period between the statement and the matter to
which the statement relates; and
any reason the person may have had for concealing or
misrepresenting a material matter; and
any other circumstances from which it is reasonable to draw
an inference about the accuracy of the statement.
If the person is not called as a witness in the proceeding:
evidence that would, if the person had been so called, have
been admissible in the proceeding for the purpose of
destroying or supporting his or her credibility is so
admissible; and
evidence is admissible to show that the statement is
inconsistent with another statement that the person has made
at any time.
However, evidence of a matter is not admissible under this section
if, had the person been called as a witness in the proceeding and
denied the matter in cross-examination, evidence of the matter
Powers of APRA Part VIII
Evidentiary use of certain material Division 3
would not have been admissible if adduced by the cross-examining
party.
Objection to admission of statements made at examination
Notice of intention to apply to admit evidence and statements
A party (the adducing party) to proceedings may, not less than 14
days before the first day of the hearing of the proceeding, give to
another party to the proceeding written notice that the adducing
party:
will apply to have admitted in evidence in the proceeding
specified statements made at an examination; and
for that purpose, will apply to have evidence of those
statements admitted in the proceeding.
Notice to set out etc. statements
A notice under subsection must set out, or be accompanied by
writing that sets out, the specified statements.
Notice of objection
Within 14 days after a notice is given under subsection, the
other party may give to the adducing party a written notice:
stating that the other party objects to specified statements
being admitted in evidence in the proceeding; and
specifies, in relation to each of those statements, the grounds
of objection.
Extension of objection period
The period prescribed by subsection may be extended by the
court or tribunal or by agreement between the parties concerned.
Part VIII Powers of APRA
Division 3 Evidentiary use of certain material
Notice etc. to be given to court or tribunal
On receiving a notice given under subsection, the adducing
party must give to the court or tribunal a copy of:
the notice under subsection and any writing that
subsection requires to accompany that notice; and
the notice under subsection.
Action by court or tribunal
If subsection is complied with, the court or tribunal may either:
determine the objections as a preliminary point before the
hearing of the proceeding begins; or
defer determination of the objections until the hearing.
Right to object to admission of statement
If a notice has been given in accordance with subsections and, the other party is not entitled to object at the hearing of the
proceeding to a statement specified in the notice being admitted in
evidence in the proceedings, unless:
the other party has, in accordance with subsection,
objected to the statement being so admitted; or
the court or tribunal gives the other party leave to object to
the statement being so admitted.
Copies of, or extracts from, certain books, accounts and
documents
A copy of, or an extract from, a book, account or document to
which subsection 13, 13B, 61, 61A or 62 applies, is
admissible in evidence in a proceeding as if the copy was the
original book, account or document or the extract were the relevant
part of original book, account or document.
A copy of, or an extract from, a book, account or document is not
admissible in evidence under subsection unless it is proved that
Powers of APRA Part VIII
Evidentiary use of certain material Division 3
the copy or extract is a true copy of the book, account or document,
or of the relevant part of the book, account or document.
For the purposes of subsection, a person who has compared:
a copy of a book, account or document with the book,
account or document; or
an extract from a book, account or document, with the
relevant part of the book, account or document;
may give evidence, either orally or by an affidavit or statutory
declaration, that the copy or extract is a true copy of the book,
account or document, or relevant part of the book, account or
document.
Report under section 61
Subject to section 61P, if a copy of a report under subsection 61
purports to be certified by APRA as a true copy of such a report,
the copy is admissible in a proceeding (other than a criminal
proceeding) as prima facie evidence of any facts or matters that the
report states an investigator to have found to exist.
Exceptions to admissibility of report
If a party to a proceeding tenders a copy of a report as evidence
against another party, the copy is not admissible under section 61N
in the proceeding as evidence against the other party unless the
court or tribunal is satisfied that:
a copy of the report has been given to the other party; and
the other party, and the other party’s lawyer, have had a
reasonable opportunity to examine that copy and to take its
contents into account in preparing the other party’s case.
Part VIII Powers of APRA
Division 3 Evidentiary use of certain material
Before or after the copy tendered in evidence is admitted in
evidence, the other party may apply to cross-examine, in relation to
the report, a specified person who, or 2 or more specified persons
each of whom:
was concerned in preparing the report or making a finding
about a fact or matter that the report states the investigator to
have found to exist; or
whether or not pursuant to a requirement made under this
Part, gave information, or produced a book, account or
document, on the basis of which, or on the basis of matters
including which, such a finding was made.
The court or tribunal must grant an application made under
subsection unless it considers that, in all the circumstances, it is
not appropriate to do so.
The court or tribunal must refuse to admit the copy, or must treat
the copy as not having been admitted, if:
the court or tribunal grants the application or applications
made under subsection; and
one or more persons to whom the application or any of the
applications relates:
are unavailable; or
do not attend to be cross-examined in relation to the
report; and
the court or tribunal is of the opinion that to admit the copy
under section 61N in the proceeding as evidence against the
other party without the other party having the opportunity to
cross-examine the other person or persons would unfairly
prejudice the other party.
Material otherwise admissible
Nothing in this Division renders evidence inadmissible in a
proceeding in circumstances where it would have been admissible
in that proceeding if this Division had not been enacted.
APRA may require persons to provide information as follows:
an ADI may be required to give APRA information in respect
of the ADI or in respect of any member of a relevant group of
bodies corporate of which the ADI is a member;
an authorised NOHC may be required to give APRA
information in respect of the NOHC or in respect of any
member of a relevant group of bodies corporate of which the
NOHC is a member;
a subsidiary of an ADI or an authorised NOHC may be
required to give APRA information in respect of the
subsidiary or in respect of any member of a relevant group of
bodies corporate of which the subsidiary is a member;
if an ADI is a subsidiary of a foreign corporation (whether or
not the ADI is itself a foreign ADI):
another subsidiary of the foreign corporation (other than
a body mentioned in paragraph , or that is
incorporated in Australia may be required to give APRA
information in respect of the subsidiary; or
another subsidiary of the foreign corporation (other than
a body mentioned in paragraph , or ) that is not
incorporated in Australia and carries on business in
Australia may be required to give APRA information in
respect of its Australian operations;
any other person who carries on any banking business in
Australia may be required to give APRA information in
connection with the person’s banking business.
The requirement to supply information may include a requirement
to supply books, accounts or documents.
A person commits an offence if:
under subsection, APRA requires the person to provide
information, books, accounts or documents; and
the person fails to comply with the requirement.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
If a person fails to comply with a requirement under subsection
in circumstances that give rise to the person committing an offence
against subsection, the person commits an offence against
subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the person committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
A requirement under subsection must not require information,
books, accounts or documents to be given with respect to the
affairs of an individual customer of an ADI unless the information,
books, accounts or documents are in respect of prudential matters
relating to:
the ADI; or
any member of a relevant group of bodies corporate of which
the ADI is a member.
To avoid doubt, this section applies to a person that is, or becomes,
a Chapter 5 body corporate (within the meaning of the
Corporations Act 2001) in the same way as this section applies to
any other person.
Powers of APRA Part VIII
Miscellaneous Division 5
Division 5—Miscellaneous
Legal professional privilege
This section applies if:
under this Act, a person requires a lawyer;
to give information; or
to produce a book, account or document; and
either:
giving the information would involve disclosing; or
the book, account or document contains;
a privileged communication made by, or on behalf of or to
the lawyer in his or her capacity as a lawyer.
The lawyer is entitled to refuse to comply with the requirement
unless:
if the person to whom, or by or on behalf of whom, the
communication was made is a body corporate that is under
administration or is being wound up—the administrator or
the liquidator of the body; or
otherwise—the person to whom, or by or on behalf of whom,
the communication was made;
consents to the lawyer complying with the requirement.
If the lawyer so refuses, he or she must, as soon as practicable, give
to the person who made the requirement a written notice setting
out:
if the lawyer knows the name of the person to whom, or by or
on behalf of whom, the communication was made—that
name and address; and
if subparagraphapplies and the communication was
made in writing—sufficient particulars to identify the
document containing the communication; and
if subparagraphapplies—sufficient particulars to
identify the book, account or document, or the part of the
book, account or document, containing the communication.
A person commits an offence if he or she refuses or fails to comply
with a requirement under this section.
Penalty: 30 penalty units.
Powers of Court relating to non-compliance with this Act
If APRA or an investigator is satisfied that a person has, without
reasonable excuse, failed to comply with a requirement made under
this Act, APRA or the investigator may by writing certify the
failure to the Federal Court of Australia.
If APRA or the investigator certifies the failure under
subsection, the Federal Court of Australia may inquire into the
case and may order the person to comply with the requirement as
specified in the order.
Notices to APRA
Matters requiring immediate notice
A member of a relevant group of bodies corporate commits an
offence if:
it becomes aware that it, another member of the group, or the
group as a whole, may not be in a sound financial position;
and
it fails to notify APRA in writing of the matter immediately
after it becomes aware of the matter.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Defence if matter already notified
Subsection does not apply in relation to a matter if:
the member of the group becomes aware of the matter
because it is informed of it by an auditor of the member; and
the auditor informs the member that the auditor has notified
APRA in writing of the matter; and
Note: the member has no reason to disbelieve the auditor.
The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in
subsection. See subsection 13.3 of the Criminal Code.
Matters requiring notice as soon as practicable
A member of a relevant group of bodies corporate commits an
offence if:
it becomes aware that:
it, another member of the group, or the group as a
whole, has breached or will breach a prudential standard
applying to it, the other member or the group as a
whole; or
another member of the group has breached or will
breach a provision of this Act or the regulations, or a
direction under Division 1BA of Part II or section 29, or
a condition of any authority granted under this Act to
the other member; and
the breach is or will be significant (see subsection); and
it fails to give APRA a written report about the breach as
soon as practicable, and in any case no later than 10 business
days, after becoming aware of the breach.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
For the purposes of paragraph, a breach is significant if the
breach is or will be significant having regard to any one or more of
the following factors:
the number or frequency of similar breaches;
the impact the breach has or will have on the member’s or
other member’s ability to conduct its business;
the extent to which the breach indicates that the member’s or
other member’s arrangements to ensure compliance with this
Act, the regulations, the prudential standards or a direction or
condition might be inadequate;
the actual or potential financial loss arising or that will arise
from the breach:
to the depositors of the ADI or any ADI that is a
member of the relevant group of bodies corporate; or
to the member or other member;
any matters prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of
this paragraph.
Defence if auditor notifies breach
Subsection does not apply in relation to a breach if:
an auditor of the member of the group gives APRA a written
report about the breach; and
the report is given before, or within 10 business days after,
the member becomes aware of the breach.
Note: The defendant bears an evidential burden in relation to the matters in
subsection. See subsection 13.3 of the Criminal Code.
If an individual:
commits an offence against subsection or because of
Part 2.4 of the Criminal Code; or
commits an offence under Part 2.4 of the Criminal Code in
relation to an offence against subsection or;
he or she is punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding 40
penalty units.
A notification or report given to APRA of a matter mentioned in
paragraphormust not include information, books,
accounts or documents with respect to the affairs of an individual
customer of an ADI unless the information, books, accounts or
documents are in respect of prudential matters relating to:
the ADI; or
any member of a relevant group of bodies corporate of which
the ADI is a member.
Involving APRA in proposed appointment of external
administrators of ADIs and NOHCs
At least one week before a person other than APRA:
makes an application to a court under Chapter 5 of the
Corporations Act 2001 for the appointment of an external
administrator of an ADI or of an authorised NOHC of an
ADI; or
makes another kind of application (whether or not to a court)
for the appointment of an external administrator of an ADI or
of an authorised NOHC of an ADI; or
appoints an external administrator of an ADI or of an
authorised NOHC of an ADI (otherwise than as the result of
an application made by another person);
the person must give APRA written notice that the person proposes
to make the application or appointment.
If there is an approved form for the notice, the person must give the
notice in the approved form.
Subsection does not apply if APRA gives the person written
notice, before the person makes the application or appointment,
that APRA consents to the person making the application or
appointment.
APRA is entitled to be heard on the application.
After receiving the notice, APRA may request the person to
provide details of the proposed application.
Offence
A person (other than APRA) commits an offence if:
the person:
makes an application to a court under Chapter 5 of the
Corporations Act 2001 for the appointment of an
external administrator of an ADI or of an authorised
NOHC of an ADI; or
makes another kind of application (whether or not to a
court) for the appointment of an external administrator
of an ADI or of an authorised NOHC of an ADI; or
appoints an external administrator of an ADI or of an
authorised NOHC of an ADI (otherwise than as the
result of an application made by another person); and
APRA did not give the person written notice, before the
person made the application or appointment, of APRA’s
consent to the person making the application or appointment,
in accordance with subsection; and
at least one week before making the application or
appointment:
if there is an approved form for the purposes of this
paragraph—the person did not give APRA notice in the
approved form indicating that the person proposed to
make the application or appointment; or
otherwise—the person did not give APRA written
notice indicating that the person proposed to make the
application or appointment.
Penalty: 60 penalty units.
An offence against subsection is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see .1 of the Criminal Code.
Involving APRA in applications by liquidator
Before making an application to a court in relation to a matter
arising under the winding-up of an entity covered by
subsection, or the proposed winding-up of an entity covered by
subsection, a liquidator must give APRA written notice that the
liquidator proposes to make the application.
The notice must include details of the proposed application.
APRA is entitled to be heard on the application.
This subsection covers the following entities:
an ADI;
an authorised NOHC;
a subsidiary of an ADI or authorised NOHC.
Application by APRA for directions
APRA may apply to the Federal Court of Australia for directions
regarding any matter arising under:
the winding-up of an entity covered by subsection 62C
(whether the winding-up occurs as a result of an application
made under the Corporations Act 2001 or by APRA under
section 11EA or 16AAA); or
the proposed winding-up of an entity covered by
subsection 62C (whether the winding-up will occur as a
result of an application made, or proposed to be made, under
the Corporations Act 2001 or by APRA under section 11EA
or 16AAA).
APRA must give the liquidator written notice that APRA proposes
to make the application.
The notice must include details of the proposed application.
The liquidator is entitled to be heard on the application.
APRA may request information from liquidator
APRA may request a liquidator of an entity covered by
subsection 62C in writing to give APRA, within a reasonable
time specified in the request, specified information in writing
about:
the winding-up of the entity (whether the winding-up occurs
as a result of an application made under the Corporations Act
2001 or by APRA under section 11EA or 16AAA) and the
other affairs of the entity; or
the proposed winding-up of the entity (whether the
winding-up will occur as a result of an application made, or
proposed to be made, under the Corporations Act 2001 or by
APRA under section 11EA or 16AAA) and the other affairs
of the entity.
The liquidator must comply with the request.
Note: Action may be taken under the Corporations Act 2001 against a
liquidator who does not comply with such a request.
Restructuring of ADIs
If consent has been given under this section to an arrangement,
agreement or reconstruction, the Treasurer must arrange for notice
of the consent to be published in the Gazette as soon as practicable.
An ADI, other than a foreign ADI, commits an offence if:
the ADI:
enters into an arrangement or agreement for any sale or
disposal of its business by amalgamation or otherwise,
or for the carrying on of business in partnership with
another ADI; or
effects a reconstruction of the ADI; and
the Treasurer did not give prior consent in writing to the ADI
entering into the arrangement or agreement or effecting the
reconstruction.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
Any such arrangement, agreement or reconstruction, and any such
sale or disposal in pursuance of any such arrangement or
agreement, entered into without the prior consent of the Treasurer
is void and of no effect.
The consent of the Treasurer under subsection shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
In making a decision whether to consent to an arrangement,
agreement or reconstruction, the Treasurer must take the national
interest into account.
A foreign ADI commits an offence if:
there is a proposal that involves the ADI:
entering into an arrangement or agreement for any sale
or disposal of its business by amalgamation or
otherwise, or for the carrying on of business in
partnership with another ADI; or
effecting a reconstruction of the ADI; and
the ADI does not give the Treasurer reasonable notice, in
writing, of the proposal.
Penalty: 200 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
An offence against subsection is an indictable offence.
The Treasurer may, in writing, delegate all or any of his or her
powers under this section and section 64 to:
APRA, an APRA member or an APRA staff member; or
ASIC, a member of ASIC or a staff member (as defined in
subsection 5 of the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission Act 2001) only in the case of a demutualisation
of an ADI; or
an officer of the Department.
A reference in this section to a reconstruction of an ADI includes a
reference to a demutualisation of an ADI.
The regulations may define the meaning of demutualisation for the
purposes of this section. If the regulations do so, demutualisation
has, in this section, the meaning given by the regulations.
The Treasurer may, by legislative instrument, determine guidelines
as to acceptable standards of disclosure of information by an ADI
(other than a foreign ADI) to its members in respect of a proposed
demutualisation of the ADI.
The Treasurer must consider whether an ADI has complied with
the guidelines (if any) in deciding whether to give a consent, for
the purposes of paragraph, to the ADI effecting a
demutualisation.
In making a determination under subsection, the Treasurer must
consult with APRA and ASIC.
Subsections to do not limit the generality of the rest of this
section. In particular, those subsections do not limit the matters that
the Treasurer may take into account in deciding whether to give a
consent, for the purposes of paragraph, to an ADI effecting a
demutualisation.
Conditions on consent to restructure an ADI
The Treasurer’s consent under subsection 63 is subject to the
conditions (if any) imposed by the Treasurer on the consent.
The Treasurer may, by written notice given to the person who has
been given the consent:
impose conditions, or further conditions, on the consent; or
revoke or vary any condition imposed on the consent; or
revoke the consent if the Treasurer is satisfied that there has
been a contravention of a condition to which the consent is
subject.
The Treasurer must arrange for a copy of a notice that has been
given under subsection to be published in the Gazette as soon
as practicable.
The Treasurer’s powers under subsection may be exercised on
the Treasurer’s own initiative. The Treasurer’s powers under
paragraphor may be exercised on application made to
the Treasurer by the person who has been given the consent.
ADIs etc. may be directed to comply with Act
Where an ADI, an authorised NOHC or a subsidiary of an ADI or
of an authorised NOHC is convicted of an offence against this Act
or the regulations, a Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia
may, upon the application of the Attorney-General by motion,
direct compliance by the ADI, NOHC or subsidiary, within a
period specified by the Court, with the provisions of this Act or the
regulations with which the ADI, NOHC or subsidiary has failed to
comply.
In default of compliance by the ADI, NOHC or subsidiary within
the specified period with a direction given in pursuance of
subsection, the Federal Court of Australia may authorize APRA
to assume control of, and to carry on, the business of the ADI,
NOHC or subsidiary.
The provisions of Subdivision B of Division 2 of Part II have
effect, so far as they are applicable, as if they also extended to
APRA being in control of the business of the ADI, NOHC or
subsidiary under subsection of this section, and as if they
covered authorised NOHCs and such subsidiaries in the same way
as they cover ADIs.
Where APRA has assumed control of the business of the ADI,
NOHC or subsidiary under subsection, APRA shall remain in
control of, and shall continue to carry on, the business of the ADI,
NOHC or subsidiary until such time as the Federal Court of
Australia is satisfied that it is no longer necessary for APRA to
remain in control of the business of the ADI, NOHC or subsidiary
and authorizes APRA to cease to control the business of the ADI,
NOHC or subsidiary.
Restraining injunctions
If a person has engaged, is engaging or is proposing to engage, in
conduct that constituted, constitutes or would constitute:
a contravention of:
a provision of this Act, the regulations, the prudential
standards or the non-ADI lender rules; or
a condition imposed or specified under this Act; or
a direction by APRA under this Act; or
attempting to contravene the provision, condition or
direction; or
aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring a person to
contravene the provision, condition or direction; or
inducing or attempting to induce, whether by threats,
promises or otherwise, a person to contravene the provision,
condition or direction; or
being in any way, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned
in, or party to, the contravention by a person of the provision,
condition or direction; or
conspiring with others to contravene the provision, condition
or direction;
the Federal Court of Australia may grant an injunction in
accordance with subsection.
The injunction:
may restrain the person from engaging in the conduct; and
may also require that person to do a particular act or thing, if
the Court thinks it desirable to do so.
The Court may grant the injunction on such terms as it thinks
appropriate.
The power of the Court to grant an injunction restraining a person
from engaging in conduct may be exercised:
whether or not it appears to the Court that the person intends
to engage again, or to continue to engage, in conduct of that
kind; and
whether or not the person has previously engaged in conduct
of that kind; and
whether or not there is an imminent danger of substantial
damage to any other person if the person engages in conduct
of that kind.
Performance injunctions
If a person has refused or failed, is refusing or failing, or is
proposing to refuse or fail, to do an act or thing that the person is
required:
by a provision of this Act, the regulations, the prudential
standards or the non-ADI lender rules to do; or
by a condition imposed or specified under this Act to do; or
by a direction by APRA under this Act to do;
the Court may grant an injunction requiring the person to do that
act or thing. It may grant the injunction on such terms as the Court
thinks appropriate.
The power of the Court to grant an injunction requiring a person to
do an act or thing may be exercised:
whether or not it appears to the Court that the person intends
to refuse or fail again, or to continue to refuse or fail, to do
that act or thing; and
whether or not the person has previously refused or failed to
do that act or thing; and
whether or not there is an imminent danger of substantial
damage to any other person if the person refuses or fails to do
that act or thing.
Who may apply for an injunction
The Court may only grant an injunction on the application of:
APRA—in all cases; or
the Treasurer—in the case of a contravention of a condition
imposed under section 64; or
ASIC or a member of the ADI—in the case of a
contravention of a condition imposed under section 64 that
has been imposed in relation to a demutualisation of an ADI.
In this subsection, demutualisation has the same meaning as in
section 63.
Consent injunctions
If an application for an injunction under subsection or has
been made, the Court may, if the Court thinks it appropriate, grant
an injunction by consent of all the parties to the proceedings,
whether or not the Court is satisfied that the subsection applies.
Interim injunctions
The Court may grant an interim injunction pending determination
of an application under subsection.
Variation or discharge of injunctions
The Court may discharge or vary an injunction granted under this
section.
Damages undertakings
APRA, ASIC and the Treasurer cannot be required, as a condition
of granting an interim injunction, to give an undertaking as to
damages.
Damages orders
If the Court has power under this section to grant an injunction
restraining a person from engaging in particular conduct, or
requiring a person to do a particular act or thing, the Court may,
either in addition to or in substitution for the grant of the
injunction, order that person to pay damages to any other person.
The powers conferred on the Court by this section are in addition
to any other of its powers, and do not derogate from its other
powers.
Schedule 2 (Civil penalties) has effect.
Restriction on use of certain words and expressions
A person commits an offence if:
the person carries on a financial business, whether or not in
Australia; and
the person assumes or uses, in Australia, a restricted word or
expression in relation to that financial business; and
neither subsection nor subsection allows that
assumption or use of that word or expression; and
APRA did not consent to that assumption or use of that word
or expression; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the person.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: For the meanings of restricted word or expression, assume or use and
financial business, see subsection.
Note 2: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 3: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If a person assumes or uses a word or expression in circumstances
that give rise to the person committing an offence against
subsection, the person commits an offence against that
subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the person committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
It is not an offence against subsection for the Reserve Bank to
assume or use the words bank, banker or banking in relation to its
financial business.
It is not an offence against subsection for an ADI to assume or
use the words bank, banker or banking in relation to the ADI’s
financial business.
Note: See also section 66AA, which deals with the use of the word bank by
ADIs.
A consent may be expressed to apply to a particular person or to
persons included in a class of persons.
APRA may, at any time:
impose conditions, or additional conditions, on a consent; or
vary or revoke conditions imposed on a consent; or
revoke a consent.
The form of the granting of a consent, or the taking of action under
subsection in relation to a consent, is to be as follows:
if the consent applies to a particular person—notice in
writing served on the person;
if the consent applies to a class of persons—notice in writing
published in the Gazette.
If APRA:
grants a consent; or
takes action under subsection in relation to a consent;
APRA must give ASIC notice of the granting of the consent or the
taking of the action.
A person commits an offence if:
the person has been given a consent under this section; and
the person contravenes a condition to which the consent is
subject; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the person.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If a person does or fails to do an act in circumstances that give rise
to the person committing an offence against subsection, the
person commits an offence against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the person committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
In this section:
to:
a reference to a restricted word or expression is a reference
the word bank, banker or banking; or
the expression building society, credit union or credit
society; or
any other word or expression specified in a
determination in force under subsection; or
any other word or expression (whether or not in
English) that is of like import to a word or expression
covered by any of the previous subparagraphs; and
a reference to a word or expression being assumed or used
includes a reference to the word or expression being assumed
or used:
as part of another word or expression; or
in combination with other words, letters or other
symbols; and
a reference to a financial business is a reference to a business
that:
consists of, or includes, the provision of financial
services; or
relates, in whole or in part, to the provision of financial
services.
APRA may, by legislative instrument, determine that a specified
word or expression is to be a restricted word or expression for the
purposes of this section.
Use of the word bank by ADIs
A person commits an offence if:
the person is an ADI; and
the ADI carries on a financial business, whether or not in
Australia; and
the person assumes or uses, in Australia, the word bank in
relation to that financial business; and
a determination under subsection is in force that specifies
that this section applies to the ADI.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: For the meanings of assume or use and financial business, see
subsection.
Note 2: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 3: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If a person assumes or uses the word bank in circumstances that
give rise to the person committing an offence against
subsection, the person commits an offence against that
subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the person committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations. APRA may, in writing, determine that this section applies to an
ADI while the determination is in force.
A determination under subsection:
may be expressed to apply:
to a particular ADI; or
to a class, or classes, of ADIs; and
may specify the period during which the determination is in
force.
A period specified under paragraph must not begin before the
day on which the determination is made.
If APRA makes a determination under subsection that applies
to a particular ADI, APRA must also give the ADI written notice
of the determination.
APRA may, in writing, vary or revoke a determination made under
subsection.
The following instruments are not legislative instruments:
a determination under subsection that applies to a
particular ADI;
an instrument made under subsection varying or revoking
a determination that applies to a particular ADI.
Otherwise, a determination under subsection or an instrument
under subsection is a legislative instrument.
Part VI applies to the following decisions under this section:
a decision to determine that this section applies to a particular
ADI;
a decision to vary a determination that applies to a particular
ADI.
In this section:
a reference to the word bank being assumed or used includes
a reference to the word being assumed or used:
as part of another word or expression; or
in combination with other words, letters or other
symbols; and
a reference to a financial business is a reference to a business
that:
consists of, or includes, the provision of financial
services; or
relates, in whole or in part, to the provision of financial
services.
Restriction on use of expressions authorised deposit-taking
institution and ADI
A person, other than an ADI, commits an offence if:
the person carries on a financial business, whether or not in
Australia; and
the person assumes or uses, in Australia, the expression
authorised deposit-taking institution, or ADI, in relation to
that financial business; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the person.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: For the meanings of assume or use and financial business, see
subsection.
Note 2: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 3: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If a person assumes or uses an expression in circumstances that
give rise to the person committing an offence against
subsection, the person commits an offence against that
subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the person committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
In this section:
a reference to an expression being assumed or used includes
a reference to the expression being assumed or used:
as part of another expression; or
in combination with other words, letters or other
symbols; and
a reference to a financial business is a reference to a business
that:
consists of, or includes, the provision of financial
services; or
relates, in whole or in part, to the provision of financial
services.
However, this section does not prohibit the use of the letters ADI
as part of another word.
Note: For example, the letters adi appear in the word traditional. Use of the
word traditional is not prohibited by this section.
Restriction on establishment or maintenance of representative
offices of overseas banks
A person, other than an ADI, commits an offence if:
the person carries on banking business in a foreign country
but does not carry on banking business in Australia; and
the person establishes or maintains an office in Australia
wholly or partly in connection with the carrying on of that
banking business in that foreign country; and
APRA did not consent, in writing, to the establishment or
maintenance of that office; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the person.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If a person establishes or maintains an office in circumstances that
give rise to the person committing an offence against
subsection, the person commits an offence against that
subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the person committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
APRA may, at any time, by notice in writing served on the person
concerned:
impose conditions, or additional conditions, on a consent;
vary or revoke conditions imposed on a consent; or
revoke a consent.
A person commits an offence if:
the person has been given a consent under this section; and
the person contravenes a condition to which the consent is
subject; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the person.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If a person does or fails to do an Act in circumstances that give rise
to the person committing an offence against subsection, the
person commits an offence against that subsection in respect of:
the first day on which the offence is committed; and
each subsequent day (if any) on which the circumstances that
gave rise to the person committing the offence continue
(including the day of conviction for any such offence or any
later day).
Note: This subsection is not intended to imply that section 4K of the Crimes
Act 1914 does not apply to offences against this Act or the regulations.
Part VI applies to the following decisions made under this section:
a decision to refuse consent;
a decision to impose conditions, or additional conditions, on
a consent;
a decision to vary conditions imposed on a consent;
a decision to revoke a consent.
Bank holidays
The Treasurer may, by notice published in the Gazette, declare a
day specified in the notice to be a bank holiday.
An ADI is not, on a day so declared to be a bank holiday,
compellable to make a payment or to do any other act that the ADI
would not be compellable to make or do on a Sunday and the
obligation to make the payment or to do the act shall be deemed to
be an obligation to make the payment or to do the act on the next
day which is not a Sunday, a bank holiday or a public holiday.
This section does not affect the operation of any law of a State or
Territory relating to bank holidays or public holidays.
In this section:
ADI includes the Reserve Bank.
For the purposes of this section, unclaimed moneys means all
principal, interest, dividends, bonuses, profits and sums of money
legally payable by an ADI but in respect of which the time within
which proceedings may be taken for the recovery thereof has
expired, and includes moneys to the credit of an account that has
not been operated on either by deposit or withdrawal for a period
of not less than:
7 years; or
if a greater number of years is specified in the regulations—
that greater number of years;
beginning:
at the most recent time when the account was operated on
either by deposit or withdrawal; or
if another time is ascertained in accordance with the
regulations—at that other time.
Subsection has effect subject to subsections,,,
and.
However, the following are not unclaimed moneys:
money in an account that is denominated in a currency other
than Australian currency;
money in a children’s account;
farm management deposits (within the meaning of the
Income Tax Assessment Act 1997).
However, moneys to the credit of an account specified in the
regulations are unclaimed moneys if, and only if, the conditions
specified in the regulations are satisfied.
Note: For specification by class, see subsection 13 of the Legislation Act
2003.
However, deposits specified in the regulations are unclaimed
moneys if, and only if, the conditions specified in the regulations
are satisfied.
Note: For specification by class, see subsection 13 of the Legislation Act
2003.
Subsection does not apply to an account specified in the
regulations.
Note: For specification by class, see subsection 13 of the Legislation Act
2003.
Subsection does not apply to a deposit specified in the
regulations.
Note: For specification by class, see subsection 13 of the Legislation Act
2003.
For the purposes of this section, the debiting of a fee to an account
shall be deemed not to be a withdrawal and the crediting to an
account of interest payable by an ADI on that account shall be
deemed not to be a deposit.
An ADI must, within 3 months after the 31 December in each year,
deliver to the Treasurer a statement, complying with
subsection, of all sums of unclaimed moneys of not less than
$100 (or such other amount as is prescribed) as at the end of the
year, other than unclaimed moneys:
held in RSAs (within the meaning of the Retirement Savings
Accounts Act 1997); or
held in accounts with the ADI that are operated on either by
deposit or withdrawal between the end of the year and the
day the statement is delivered to the Treasurer; or
held in an account with the ADI in respect of which the
holder of the account, or an agent of the holder, has notified
the ADI, between the end of the year and the day the
statement is delivered to the Treasurer, that the holder wishes
to treat the account as active.
The ADI commits an offence if:
it does not give the Treasurer a statement as required by
subsection; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the ADI.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
The statement shall set out:
the name, and the last-known address, of each shareholder,
depositor or creditor; and
the amount required to be paid under subsection; and
in the case of moneys to the credit of an account—the office
or branch of the ADI at which the account was kept.
The ADI must, at the time of the delivery of the statement, pay the
Commonwealth an amount equal to the total of all sums of
unclaimed moneys covered by subsection in relation to the
ADI, as at the end of the year.
The ADI commits an offence if:
it does not pay, at the time of the delivery of the statement,
the amount required by subsection; and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the ADI.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
Subject to subsection, an ADI is, upon payment to the
Commonwealth of an amount as required by this section,
discharged from further liability in respect of that amount.
Where unclaimed moneys have been paid to the Commonwealth
under this section and the Treasurer or an authorized officer is
satisfied that, but for subsection, a person would be paid those
unclaimed moneys by the ADI by which they were paid to the
Commonwealth (or, if that ADI is no longer carrying on banking
business, by an ADI to which the business of the first-mentioned
ADI has been sold or disposed of), those unclaimed moneys shall
be paid to that ADI and the ADI shall thereupon pay those moneys
to that person.
If unclaimed moneys are paid to an ADI under subsection on or
after 1 July 2013:
the Commonwealth must also pay to the ADI the amount of
interest (if any) worked out in accordance with the
regulations; and
the ADI must pay that amount to the person.
Regulations made for the purposes of paragraph (7AA)may
involve different rates of interest for different periods over which
the interest accrues. For this purpose, rate includes a nil rate.
Interest under paragraph (7AA)does not accrue in relation to a
period before 1 July 2013.
The ADI commits an offence if:
it does not pay moneys to a person as required by
subsection or (7AA); and
there is no determination in force under section 11 that this
subsection does not apply to the ADI.
Penalty: 50 penalty units.
Note 1: Chapter 2 of the Criminal Code sets out the general principles of
criminal responsibility.
Note 2: If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this subsection,
subsection 4B of the Crimes Act 1914 allows a court to impose a
fine of up to 5 times the penalty stated above.
If an ADI satisfies the Treasurer that an amount paid by the ADI
under subsection exceeds the amount that should have been
paid under that subsection, the Treasurer must refund the amount
of the excess.
The Consolidated Revenue Fund is appropriated for the purposes
of, and to the extent necessary to give effect to, subsections,
and.
The Treasurer shall cause particulars of every sum shown in a
statement delivered under this section to be made available to the
public (whether or not on the payment of a fee) in such manner as
the Treasurer determines.
The Treasurer or an ADI may apply to the Federal Court of
Australia for a declaration whether any moneys are or are not
unclaimed moneys within the meaning of this section and the
Federal Court of Australia may make a declaration accordingly.
It is the intention of the Parliament that a law of a State or Territory
has no effect insofar as it requires an ADI to:
pay unclaimed moneys to, or to an authority of, a State or
Territory; or
lodge a return relating to unclaimed moneys with, or with an
authority of, a State or Territory.
The Treasurer may, by instrument in writing, delegate any of his or
her functions or powers under this section to:
a corporate Commonwealth entity for which the Treasurer is
the responsible Minister; or
a member, or staff member, of such an entity.
The reference to the Treasurer in paragraph (3AA)is to be read
as including a reference to the authority or person to whom the
Treasurer has delegated his or her function under subsection.
In this section:
authorized officer, means the Secretary of the Department of the
Treasury or an officer of that Department authorized by the
Secretary to act under this section.
children’s account means an account:
whose terms and conditions require it to be held by, or for the
benefit of, a person under 18; and
that is opened:
in the name of a person who is under 18 at the time; or
by the trustee of a trust for the benefit of a person who
is under 18 at the time.
corporate Commonwealth entity has the same meaning as in the
Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013.
responsible Minister has the same meaning as in the Public
Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013.
Disclosure of information relating to unclaimed moneys
This section applies if an amount of unclaimed moneys is specified
in a statement delivered to the Treasurer under subsection 69.
A person must not disclose:
particulars of the amount of unclaimed moneys; or
particulars of the person to whom the money is payable (the
payee);
to a person other than the payee or an agent of the payee.
Note: This subsection is specified in Schedule 3 to the Freedom of
Information Act 1982 with the effect that a document containing
particulars protected from disclosure by this subsection is an exempt
document under that Act.
Subsection does not apply if the disclosure is authorised by
section 69.
Powers about money of depositors who have died
If a depositor of an ADI dies, the ADI may apply an amount not
exceeding $15,000 held by the ADI that was deposited or paid up
on a withdrawable share by the deceased person:
in payment of the deceased person’s funeral expenses or
debts; or
in payment to the executor of the deceased person’s will; or
in payment to anyone else who is, in the ADI’s opinion,
entitled to the amount, having regard to the laws of probate
and accepted practice for the administration of deceased
estates.
The amount may be applied without production of probate, of the
will or letters of administration of the estate.
No action lies against an ADI for acting, or failing to act, under
subsection.
Institution of offence proceedings no bar to winding up
The institution of proceedings against a body corporate for an
offence against this Act, the Financial Sector (Collection of Data)
Act 2001 or the Financial Accountability Regime Act 2023 does not
prevent the institution of proceedings for the winding-up of the
body corporate on a ground that relates to the matter that
constitutes the offence.
Conduct of directors, employees and agents
Where it is necessary to establish, for the purposes of this Act or
the regulations, the state of mind of a person other than a body
corporate in relation to particular conduct, it is sufficient to show:
that the conduct was engaged in by an employee or agent of
the person within the scope of his or her actual or apparent
authority; and
that the employee or agent had the state of mind.
Any conduct engaged in on behalf of a person other than a body
corporate by an employee or agent of the person within the scope
of his or her actual or apparent authority shall be deemed, for the
purposes of this Act and the regulations, to have been engaged in
also by the first-mentioned person unless the first-mentioned
person establishes that the first-mentioned person took reasonable
precautions and exercised due diligence to avoid the conduct.
Where:
a person other than a body corporate is convicted of an
offence; and
the person would not have been convicted of the offence if
subsections and had not been enacted;
the person is not liable to be punished by imprisonment for that
offence.
A reference in subsection to the state of mind of a person
includes a reference to:
the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose of the
person; and
the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief or
purpose.
A reference in this section to engaging in conduct includes a
reference to failing or refusing to engage in conduct.
Note: For provisions relating to proof of offences by bodies corporate, see
Part 2.5 of the Criminal Code.
Disclosure of information received under Act prohibited in
certain circumstances
Part 6 of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998
prohibits certain disclosures of information received under this
Act.
Compensation for acquisition of property
If:
apart from this section, the operation of this Act would result
in the acquisition of property from a person otherwise than
on just terms; and
the acquisition would be invalid because of
paragraph 51(xxxi) of the Constitution;
the Commonwealth is liable to pay to the person compensation of a
reasonable amount as agreed on between the Commonwealth and
the person. If the Commonwealth and the person do not agree on
the amount of the compensation, the person may institute
proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia for the recovery from
the Commonwealth of such reasonable amount of compensation as
the Court determines.
Any damages or compensation recovered or other remedy given in
a proceeding that is commenced otherwise than under this section
is to be taken into account in assessing compensation payable in a
proceeding that is commenced under this section and that arises out
of the same event or transaction.
In this section:
acquisition of property and just terms have the same respective
meanings as in paragraph 51(xxxi) of the Constitution.
Severability
Act also has effect as provided in this section
Without prejudice to its effect apart from this section, this Act also
has effect as provided by this section.
References to a NOHC of an ADI
This Act has, by force of this subsection, the effect it would have if
the Act separately provided as mentioned in the following
paragraphs:
the Act has effect as if a reference to a NOHC of an ADI
were expressly limited to a reference to a NOHC of an ADI
that carries on banking business as mentioned in
paragraph of the banking business definition;
the Act has effect as if a reference to a NOHC of an ADI
were expressly limited to a reference to a NOHC of an ADI
that carries on banking business as mentioned in
paragraph of the banking business definition.
References to a subsidiary of an ADI
This Act has, by force of this subsection, the effect it would have if
the Act separately provided as mentioned in the following
paragraphs:
the Act has effect as if a reference to a subsidiary of an ADI
were expressly limited to a reference to a subsidiary of an
ADI, being a subsidiary that is a corporation to which
paragraph 51of the Constitution applies;
this Act has effect as if a reference to a subsidiary of an ADI
were expressly limited to a reference to a subsidiary of an
ADI, being an ADI that carries on banking business as
mentioned in paragraph of the banking business
definition;
this Act has effect as if a reference to a subsidiary of an ADI
were expressly limited to a reference to a subsidiary of an
ADI, being an ADI that carries on banking business as
mentioned in paragraph of the banking business
definition.
References to a subsidiary of a foreign corporation
This Act has, by force of this subsection, the effect it would have if
the Act separately provided as mentioned in the following
paragraphs:
the Act has effect as if a reference to a subsidiary of a foreign
corporation were expressly limited to a reference to a
subsidiary of a foreign corporation, being a subsidiary that is
a corporation to which paragraph 51of the Constitution
applies;
the Act has effect as if a reference to a subsidiary of a foreign
corporation were expressly limited to a reference to a
subsidiary of a foreign corporation, being a subsidiary that
carries on banking business as mentioned in paragraph of
the banking business definition;
the Act has effect as if a reference to a subsidiary of a foreign
corporation were expressly limited to a reference to a
subsidiary of a foreign corporation, being a subsidiary that
carries on banking business as mentioned in paragraph of
the banking business definition.
References to a body corporate that is a member of a relevant
group of bodies corporate
This Act has, by force of this subsection, the effect it would have if
the Act separately provided as mentioned in the following
paragraphs:
the Act has effect as if a reference to a body corporate that is
a member of a relevant group of bodies corporate were
expressly limited to a reference to a body corporate, being a
body corporate that is a corporation to which
paragraph 51of the Constitution applies;
the Act has effect as if a reference to a body corporate that is
a member of a relevant group of bodies corporate were
expressly limited to a reference to a body corporate, being a
body corporate that carries on banking business as mentioned
in paragraph of the banking business definition;
the Act has effect as if a reference to a body corporate that is
a member of a relevant group of bodies corporate were
expressly limited to a reference to a body corporate, being a
body corporate that carries on banking business as mentioned
in paragraph of the banking business definition;
References to a subsidiary of an authorised NOHC
This Act has, by force of this subsection, the effect it would have if
the Act separately provided as mentioned in the following
paragraphs:
the Act has effect as if a reference to a subsidiary of an
authorised NOHC were expressly limited to a reference to a
subsidiary of an authorised NOHC, being a subsidiary that is
a corporation to which paragraph 51of the Constitution
applies;
this Act has effect as if a reference to a subsidiary of an
authorised NOHC were expressly limited to a reference to a
subsidiary of an authorised NOHC, being a NOHC of an ADI
that carries on banking business as mentioned in
paragraph of the banking business definition;
this Act has effect as if a reference to a subsidiary of an
authorised NOHC were expressly limited to a reference to a
subsidiary of an authorised NOHC, being a NOHC of an ADI
that carries on banking business as mentioned in
paragraph of the banking business definition.
References to a holding company of an ADI
This Act has, by force of this subsection, the effect it would have if
the Act separately provided as mentioned in the following
paragraphs:
the Act has effect as if a reference to a holding company of
an ADI were expressly limited to a reference to a holding
company of an ADI, being a holding company that is a
corporation to which paragraph 51of the Constitution
applies;
the Act has effect as if a reference to a holding company of
an ADI were expressly limited to a reference to a holding
company of an ADI, being a holding company that carries on
banking business as mentioned in paragraph of the
banking business definition;
the Act has effect as if a reference to a holding company of
an ADI were expressly limited to a reference to a holding
company of an ADI, being a holding company that carries on
banking business as mentioned in paragraph of the
banking business definition.
Interpretation
In this section:
banking business definition means the definition of banking
business in subsection 5.
70A Protection from liability—general
A person is not subject to any liability to any person in respect of
anything done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and without
negligence in the exercise or performance, or the purported
exercise or performance, of powers, functions or duties under this
Act.
To avoid doubt, any information provided by a person to APRA
under section 16C is taken, for the purposes of subsection, to be
provided in the exercise of a power or the performance of a
function under this Act.
Subsection does not apply to a person referred to in section 58
of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Act 1998 and, to
avoid doubt, does not affect the operation of that section.
70AA Protection from liability—directions and secrecy
An action, suit or proceeding (whether criminal or civil) does not
lie against a person in relation to anything done, or omitted to be
done, in good faith by the person if:
the person does the thing, or omits to do the thing, for the
purpose of any of the following:
complying with a direction under this Act given by
APRA to a body corporate;
complying with section 11CI (secrecy) in relation to a
direction under this Act given by APRA to a body
corporate; and
it is reasonable for the person to do the thing, or to omit to do
the thing, in order to achieve that purpose; and
the person is any of the following:
an officer or senior manager of the body corporate, or of
a member of a relevant group of bodies corporate of
which the body corporate is also a member;
an employee or agent of the body corporate, or of a
member of a relevant group of bodies corporate of
which the body corporate is also a member;
the body corporate or a member of a relevant group of
bodies corporate of which the body corporate is also a
member.
For the purposes of paragraph, treat it as reasonable for a
person to do a thing, or to omit to do a thing, in order to achieve a
purpose unless no reasonable person in that person’s position
would do the thing, or omit to do the thing, in order to achieve that
purpose.
In this section:
employee of a body corporate includes a person engaged to provide
advice or services to the body corporate.
officer has the meaning given by section 9 of the Corporations Act
2001.
70AB Protection from liability—provisions do not limit each other
The following provisions do not limit the operation of each other:
section 14C;
section 52A;
section 52B;
section 70A;
section 70AA;
section 58 of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
Act 1998.
70B Act has effect despite the Corporations Act
This Act has effect despite any provision of the Corporations Act
2001.
70C Authorising contracts etc. for protecting depositors’ interests
and financial system stability
Authorising the making of contracts and arrangements
With the Finance Minister’s written approval, the Minister may
authorise the making of contracts and arrangements by the
Commonwealth for the purposes of:
protecting the interests of depositors of ADIs in ways that are
consistent with the continued development of a viable,
competitive and innovative banking industry; or
protecting financial system stability in Australia.
Specifying amounts to be credited to special account
The authorisation must specify the amount (if any) to be credited to
the Financial System Stability Special Account, so that the total
described in subsection does not exceed by more than
$20,000,000,000 the total described in subsection.
Note: This ensures that the balance of the special account directly
attributable to authorisations under this section cannot exceed
$20,000,000,000 at any time.
The total described in this subsection is the total of all the amounts
specified under subsection in authorisations made under this
section (taking account of any amendments of those
authorisations).
The total described in this subsection is the total of all the amounts
taken under subsection 80 of the Public Governance,
Performance and Accountability Act 2013 to be debited from the
Financial System Stability Special Account for expenditure for the
purpose described in paragraph 70Gof this Act.
Note: That purpose is making a payment under a contract or arrangement
whose making was authorised under this section.
Amending specification of amount to be credited
The Minister may amend an authorisation made under this section,
but only to change the specification of an amount under
subsection, within the limit set out in that subsection.
Authorisation cannot be revoked
The Minister cannot revoke an authorisation made under this
section.
Authorisation or amendment not disallowable
An authorisation or amendment made under this section is a
legislative instrument, but section 42 (disallowance) of the
Legislation Act 2003 does not apply to the authorisation or
amendment.
Note: Part 4 of Chapter 3 (sunsetting) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not
apply to the authorisation or amendment: see regulations made for the
purposes of paragraph 54of that Act.
When authorisation or amendment commences
Despite subsection 12 of the Legislation Act 2003, the
authorisation or amendment commences from the time it is made.
Subsection 12 (retrospective application of legislative
instruments) of the Legislation Act 2003 does not apply to the
authorisation or amendment.
70D Borrowing funds for payments under authorised contracts etc.
Subsection applies if the Minister has determined under
section 70C an amount to be credited to the Financial System
Stability Special Account.
On behalf of the Commonwealth, the Minister may, with the
Finance Minister’s written approval, borrow money for not more
than 24 months on terms and conditions specified in, or consistent
with, the approval, so that the total unrepaid borrowing under this
section is not more than $20,000,000,000 at any time.
The Finance Minister may delegate, in writing, to an SES
employee or acting SES employee in the Department that is
administered by the Finance Minister, the Finance Minister’s
power of approval for the purposes of subsection.
In this section:
borrow includes raise money or obtain credit, whether by dealing
in securities or otherwise, but does not include obtain credit in a
transaction forming part of the day-to-day operations of the
Commonwealth.
70E Financial System Stability Special Account
The Financial System Stability Special Account is established by
this section.
The Account is a special account for the purposes of the Public
Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013.
70F Credits to the Account
There must be credited to the Account amounts equal to the
following:
the amount specified in an authorisation under any of the
following sections as an amount to be credited to the
Account:
section 70C;
section 131A of the Insurance Act 1973;
section 251A of the Life Insurance Act 1995;
an amount borrowed under any of the following sections:
section 70D;
Note: section 131B of the Insurance Act 1973;
section 251B of the Life Insurance Act 1995.
An Appropriation Act may contain a provision to the effect that, if any
of the purposes of a special account is a purpose that is covered by an
item in the Appropriation Act (whether or not the item expressly
refers to the special account), then amounts may be debited against the
appropriation for that item and credited to that special account.
To avoid doubt, if:
the amount specified in an authorisation described in
paragraphis credited to the Account; and
the authorisation is later amended so as to increase the
amount;
only the increase, and not the whole of the increased amount, is to
be credited to the Account as a result of the amendment.
Note: Crediting the whole of the increased amount to the Account would
lead to double-counting of the amount specified in the authorisation
before the amendment.
70G Purposes of the Account
The purposes of the Account are as follows:
making a payment under a contract or arrangement whose
making was authorised under section 70C;
making a payment under a contract or arrangement whose
making was authorised under section 131A of the Insurance
Act 1973;
making a payment under a contract or arrangement whose
making was authorised under section 251A of the Life
Insurance Act 1995;
repaying a borrowing, and paying interest on a borrowing,
made under any of the following sections:
section 70D;
section 131B of the Insurance Act 1973;
section 251B of the Life Insurance Act 1995;
meeting the expenses of administering the Account.
Note: See section 80 of the Public Governance, Performance and
Accountability Act 2013 (which deals with special accounts).
70H Debits to reflect reduced amounts specified in authorisations
If an authorisation under any of the following sections specifying
an amount to be credited to the Account is amended so as to reduce
the amount, an amount equal to the reduction must be debited from
the Account:
section 70C;
section 131A of the Insurance Act 1973;
section 251A of the Life Insurance Act 1995.
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with
this Act, prescribing all matters which by this Act are required or
permitted to be prescribed, or which are necessary or convenient to
be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act and, in
particular, prescribing penalties for offences against the regulations
which, except as otherwise provided by this Act, shall not exceed:
if the offender is a natural person—a fine of 50 penalty units;
or
if the offender is a body corporate—a fine of 250 penalty
units.
Without limiting the generality of subsection, the regulations
may confer on APRA functions relating to the supervision of ADIs
and NOHCs in relation to prudential matters.
The Governor-General shall not make regulations for or in relation
to requiring ADIs or NOHCs to observe requirements in relation to
prudential matters except in accordance with the recommendation
of the Treasurer.
Before making a recommendation for the purposes of
subsection, the Treasurer shall consult APRA.
Schedule 1 State and Territory laws relating to ADI mergers
Schedule 1—State and Territory laws relating
to ADI mergers
Note: See section 38A.
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited (Merger) Act, 1982 of New South Wales
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited (Merger) Act, 1982 of New
South Wales
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited (Merger) Act 1982 of Victoria
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited (Merger) Act 1982 of Victoria
Commercial Bank of Australia Limited Merger Act 1982 of Queensland
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited Merger Act 1982 of Queensland
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited (Merger) Act, 1982 of South Australia
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited (Merger) Act, 1982 of South
Australia
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited (Merger) Act 1982 of Western Australia
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited (Merger) Act 1982 of Western
Australia
Commercial Bank of Australia Limited (Merger) Act 1982 of Tasmania
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited (Merger) Act 1982 of Tasmania
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited (Merger) Act 1982 of the Northern Territory
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited (Merger) Act 1982 of the
Northern Territory
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited (Merger) Ordinance 1982 of the Australian
Capital Territory
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited (Merger) Ordinance 1982 of the
Australian Capital Territory
Note: See section 65B.
1 Federal Court may order person to pay pecuniary penalty for
contravening civil penalty provision
Application for order
Within 6 years of a person contravening a civil penalty provision,
APRA may apply, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to the Federal
Court of Australia for an order that the person pay the
Commonwealth a pecuniary penalty.
Court may order person to pay pecuniary penalty
If the Court is satisfied that the person has contravened a civil
penalty provision, the Court may order the person to pay to the
Commonwealth for each contravention the pecuniary penalty that
the Court determines is appropriate (but not more than the relevant
amount specified for the provision).
Determining amount of pecuniary penalty
In determining the pecuniary penalty, the Court must have regard
to all relevant matters, including:
the nature and extent of the contravention; and
the nature and extent of any loss or damage suffered as a
result of the contravention; and
the circumstances in which the contravention took place; and
whether the person has previously been found by the Court in
proceedings under this Act to have engaged in any similar
conduct.
Conduct contravening more than one civil penalty provision
If conduct constitutes a contravention of 2 or more civil penalty
provisions, proceedings may be instituted under this Act against a
person in relation to the contravention of any one or more of those
provisions. However, the person is not liable to more than one
pecuniary penalty under this clause in respect of the same conduct.
Contravening a civil penalty provision is not an offence
A contravention of a civil penalty provision is not an offence.
A person must not:
aid, abet, counsel or procure a contravention of a civil
penalty provision; or
induce (by threats, promises or otherwise) a contravention of
a civil penalty provision; or
be in any way directly or indirectly knowingly concerned in,
or party to, a contravention of a civil penalty provision; or
conspire to contravene a civil penalty provision.
This Schedule applies to a person who contravenes subclause in
relation to a civil penalty provision as if the person had
contravened the provision.
However, if an individual contravenes subclause in relation to a
civil penalty provision that can be contravened only by a body
corporate, subclause 1 applies as if the reference in that
subclause to the relevant amount specified for the provision were a
reference to 1/5 of the relevant amount specified for the provision.
If the Federal Court of Australia orders a person to pay a pecuniary
penalty:
the penalty is payable to the Commonwealth; and
Civil penalties Schedule 2
Contravention of a civil penalty provision Part 1
the Commonwealth may enforce the order as if it were a
judgment of the Court.
Civil evidence and procedure rules for pecuniary penalty orders
The Federal Court of Australia must apply the rules of evidence
and procedure for civil matters when hearing proceedings for a
pecuniary penalty order.
Schedule 2 Civil penalties
Part 2 Civil penalty proceedings and criminal proceedings
Part 2—Civil penalty proceedings and criminal
proceedings
Civil proceedings after criminal proceedings
The Federal Court of Australia must not make a pecuniary penalty
order against a person for a contravention of a civil penalty
provision if the person has been convicted of an offence constituted
by conduct that is substantially the same as the conduct
constituting the contravention.
Criminal proceedings during civil proceedings
Proceedings for a pecuniary penalty order against a person for a
contravention of a civil penalty provision are stayed if:
criminal proceedings are started or have already been started
against the person for an offence; and
the offence is constituted by conduct that is substantially the
same as the conduct alleged to constitute the contravention.
The proceedings for the order may be resumed if the person is not
convicted of the offence. Otherwise, the proceedings for the order
are dismissed.
Criminal proceedings after civil proceedings
Criminal proceedings may be started against a person for conduct
that is substantially the same as conduct constituting a
contravention of a civil penalty provision regardless of whether a
pecuniary penalty order has been made against the person.
Civil penalties Schedule 2
Civil penalty proceedings and criminal proceedings Part 2
Evidence given in proceedings for penalty not admissible in
criminal proceedings
Evidence of information given or evidence of production of
documents by an individual is not admissible in criminal
proceedings against the individual if:
the individual previously gave the evidence or produced the
documents in proceedings for a pecuniary penalty order
against the individual for a contravention of a civil penalty
provision (whether or not the order was made); and
the conduct alleged to constitute the offence is substantially
the same as the conduct that was claimed to constitute the
contravention.
However, this does not apply to a criminal proceeding in respect of
the falsity of the evidence given by the individual in the
proceedings for the pecuniary penalty order.
Endnotes
Endnote 1—About the endnotes
Endnotes
Endnote 1—About the endnotes
The endnotes provide information about this compilation and the compiled law.
The following endnotes are included in every compilation:
Endnote 1—About the endnotes
Endnote 2—Abbreviation key
Endnote 3—Legislation history
Endnote 4—Amendment history
Abbreviation key—Endnote 2
The abbreviation key sets out abbreviations that may be used in the endnotes.
Legislation history and amendment history—Endnotes 3 and 4
Amending laws are annotated in the legislation history and amendment history.
The legislation history in endnote 3 provides information about each law that
has amended (or will amend) the compiled law. The information includes
commencement details for amending laws and details of any application, saving
or transitional provisions that are not included in this compilation.
The amendment history in endnote 4 provides information about amendments at
the provision (generally section or equivalent) level. It also includes information
about any provision of the compiled law that has been repealed in accordance
with a provision of the law.
Editorial changes
The Legislation Act 2003 authorises First Parliamentary Counsel to make
editorial and presentational changes to a compiled law in preparing a
compilation of the law for registration. The changes must not change the effect
of the law. Editorial changes take effect from the compilation registration date.
If the compilation includes editorial changes, the endnotes include a brief
outline of the changes in general terms. Full details of any changes can be
obtained from the Office of Parliamentary Counsel.
Misdescribed amendments
A misdescribed amendment is an amendment that does not accurately describe
how an amendment is to be made. If, despite the misdescription, the amendment
Endnotes
Endnote 1—About the endnotes
can be given effect as intended, then the misdescribed amendment can be
incorporated through an editorial change made under section 15V of the
Legislation Act 2003.
If a misdescribed amendment cannot be given effect as intended, the
amendment is not incorporated and “(md not incorp)” is added to the
amendment history.